CHAPTEE I.
Rosamond.

Is there in the Avorld so inconsistent a creature ? Is she not
capricious, teasing, tyrannical, obstinate, perverse, absurd ? Ay, a
wilderness of faults and follies ; her looks are scorn, and her very
smiles  ah me ! I wish I hadn't mentioned her smiles."  Sheridan.

EosAMUND was just eighteen, and no one
could have done more justice to that thermidor
aoe.

o o

It was not only that her eye was the brightest
and her step the lightest in the world ; it
was that the dark eye could flash, and the
little foot could stamp, and that,  but the
whole may be summed up in one brief word :
Rosamund, while retaining many an enchant-vol.

I. . A

ing trait that was all her own, had, somehow
or other, contrived to borrow here and there
an imposing quality from a terribly imposing
mother.

Of this more anon : for the present, suffice
it to say that my heroine was young, warm,
and still sprouting upwards as fast as a springing
sapling. To the end of her finger-tips
she was glowing with vigorous life. Of a
morning she awoke like a giant refreshed,
armed at all points for whatever the day
might bring forth.

If well met and kindly treated by fortune,
there she was ; if not  why, there also ; very
much, indeed, there, heedless of consequences,
and defiant of the future.

Evils troubled her much, but not long.
Afflictions in the shape of restraint and rule
were grievous, but not despicable ; and action
in any form was a source of pure untempered
delight.

In person Rosamond was straight, supple,
and rather over the average height ; her throat

and shoulders were round and white, and her
arms very beautiful, long, and tapering; but
she swung them as she walked, causing
thereby a thunderbolt to fall when, on one
occasion, the newly emancipated young lady
of King's Common,  the Miss Liscard whose
name was supposed to be in everybody's
mouth, and whom Lady Caroline, in her
sombre heart, believed to be creating Cjuite
a county sensation,  was beheld by the same
astonished parent, steaming along through
the home park, all unconscious of ill, at the
rate of five miles an hour, the aforementioned
long arms swinging like the fans of a
windmill.

A year ago such a thing might have been
endured,  but now !

Rosamund was, in short, "out,"  and in
that little word was summed up an infinity
of meaning. She was no longer the source of
perpetual excitement and stimulus to what
was not precisely the acquirement of knowledge
in the schoolroom ; she was beyond the

reach of the overcharged and unsympathetic
governess (for which it may be presumed that
functionary daily thanked her stars) ; and she
was promoted to having her name printed on
her mother's visiting-cards. If a tuck had
still to be let down in one of her frocks, the
tell-tale was ironed out with infinite pains, as
though almost an insult had been offered to
the young mademoiselle, who was now " quite
grown up," having passed beyond a mysterious
Rubicon in the eyes of the household. If her
hair fell loose and lay tumbling in the well-known
and formerly unappreciated masses on
her shoulder, she was respectfully informed of
her misfortune. If her hat and gloves were
found on the floor, in passage or landing, they
were restored to her room, and reappeared as
by magic in wardrobe and drawer. Nothing
she could now do was wrong in this respect.
With a single exception, no one restrained
her, no one held her in check,  no one, in
fact, considered her as the same Rosamund
they had known hitherto.

One person only tendered no allegiance ;
but even Lady Caroline paused and regarded
her daughter with attention.

Now Eosamund had never been handsome
as a child. As a troublesome school - girl,
often disordered by the agitations of her little
world, careless of pleasing, and a sloven in
her dress, it had been doubtful whether she
ever would possess any looks at all. But on a
sudden the scene had changed. Her complexion
had freshened, her headaches had
disappeared, and she had begun to take pride
in her beautiful hair. It had dawned upon
her with a sensation altogether novel that
she had a nose, a mouth, a chin. She saw
that her hands were pretty, but sun-burned ;
she liked to put a ribbon round her soft
throat.

Everything about the child was new and
wonderful at this time. With the great event
of her emancipation, the world and she had
met afresh, and shaken hands upon it. True,
her own joyous spirits, warmth of blood, and

excellent powers of recovery after suppression,
wrath, and wailing, had always borne her
aloiio' on the hioh tide of life with a certain
zest and force which had made the days fly
by fast enough, even when filled with a
tumultuous mingling of joy and woe,  but
still the difference between past and present
remained.

Rosamond had now become a personage,
while before, her individuality had been merged
in that of numbers ; and perhaps in this lay
the key to the whole.

To explain how such a thing could ever
have been, in the case of one so emphatically
unlike those about her, so distinctly and
absolutely herself and no one else, it must
be explained that there was another and a yet
stronger, and, by reason of place and years, a
still more dominant nature in the family ; and
that nothing had ever been further from Lady
Caroline Liscard's intentions than that anyone
belonging to her should be recognised as
having' a mind or a conscience, still less a

whim or a fancy, which did not coincide with
her own.

If Mr Liscard did not thus go for absolutely
nothing, he was well down in the rating, and
was content to be so. Of him all that need at
present be said was, that he was a man whom
nature had intended to lead an easy-going,
peaceable life, in which case he would have
been known as an amiable parent, a quiet
neighbour, and a very respectable member of
society ; but he was plagued by dyspepsia and
Lady Caroline, and had grown peevish in consequence.
He loved his books, was something
of a scholar, and still more of a pedant. To
be in communication with literary men now
and again, to buy rather so-so editions of
valuable works, and unpack the boxes they
came in himself, to arrange and rearrange
his long rows of shelves, to consult with his
carpenter over little alterations and conveniences,
and to have everything luxurious, calm,
and reposeful in his well-warmed, commodious
library, filled up the measure of his desires.

His wife had brought him a large fortune,
but he had no wish to have a hand in the
disposal of it. It suited her to rule, and it
suited him to be  if not ruled, at least let
alone, untroubled and consulted. Lady
Caroline was the very woman for such a husband
in many ways, and a shade more consideration,
or even a grain more tact, might
have given her the place in his heart which
she held in his opinion ; but, as it was, he
occasionally turned upon her ladyship when
she least expected it.

He had, however, no mind that any one else
should do so. His languid eye would open
wide though his tongue would be mute when
any living being ventured to take the field
with his hardy dame ; and buried in his correspondence,
his reputation, and his digestion,
he was as far removed from the rest of the
family, even from the very front ranks of his
offspring, as was his imperious spouse, occupied
by her determined sway over a chattering
neighbourhood, a refractory parish, and two

households  that of her maiden sister, Lady
Julia Verelst, being quite as much under her
thumb as her own.

Neither parent had ever deigned to evince
the slightest perception up to the present time
that any one or other of that unknown herd,
yclept the children, had an individuality of
any sort. They had been there, consequently
they had had to be provided for  to be fed,
clothed, and taught : and the orirls had been
placed under a governess, and the boys sent to
school; and at Christmas-time had come the
orthodox tree, with its accompanying dry and
solemn party, and in the summer there had
been the boys' cricket-matches and the harvest
festival ; sea - air also after whooping - cough
and measles, and extended holidays when these
had been recommended by the family doctor.

But it had all been done in the piece, as it
were. Where one had gone, all had gone ;
what had been found beneficial in one case
had been unhesitatingly applied to another ;
no exceptions had been made ; and the severance

of any single unit from the entire body
was the last tinto be thought of. To sum
up in a word, nothing would have surprised
Mr Liscard and Lady Caroline more than to
have been told that no two girls and boys of
the same age may be reckoned on as having
precisely similar feelings and fancies, and to
have been made to recognise the amazing fact
that among twelve children may be found
twelve different minds, consciences, tempers,
tongues, and stomachs.

My dear Rosamund, you must be talking
nonsense."

Mamma, it is quite true. The very things
Dolly loves, Catharine detests ; and the lessons
Dolly cries her eyes out over, Catharine does
not mind in the least."

That is merely because there is two years'
difference between them. When Dolly is as
old as Catharine, of course she will do as
Catharine does."

But mamma "

My dear child, who should know best, you

or I ? I have given you my opinion of the
matter, because you are now old enough to
understand,  but there is an end of it. It is
my wish that Dolly is advanced to Catharine's
standard, directly she attains Catharine's age."

In her new-born licence Rosamond had been
pleading that this might not be ; but she had
yet to learn that, great as had been her advance
even in her mother's estimation, Lady
Caroline still meant to hold her own as she
had ever done.

Every one else, however, as we have said,
gave in upon the spot. Even Netley, the
magnificent Netley, the very tartest of Tartars
in the shape of a head - gardener  even he
culled his choicest blossoms for the fair bosom
of the debutante ; while Ossory, known as
Mrs Ossory  Mrs Ossory in black satin and
spectacles, whom even Lady Caroline treated
punctiliously, and whom her master had never
presumed to address in his life  even she sent
a message in the form of a humble request to
see her young lady robed for her first ball.

Request ! and that from Ossory, who had so
many a time and oft ejected almost by force
the whole pack of ravening intruders, with
Rosamund at their head, when now and again
the store-room, with its spicy shelves and
odorous repositories, had been subjected to a
schoolroom invasion ! And blossoms from
Netley, who, with scarce less ceremony, had
bidden them begone from his premises, what
time the peaches were ripe on the wall and
the grapes thick in the houses ! It was almost
too much. It struck the recipient with a sense
of bewilderment that was akin to awe.

It touched and subdued her, when perhaps
all aglow and throbbing from joyous open-air
exercise, to meet by chance her whilom despot
and preceptress, and to note how cold and
thin felt the poor little cross-looking woman's
hand. A hitherto unknown compassion and
forbearance crept into her heart. The ancient
feud died out of it.

Rosamund had never had, it must be owned,
affinity with learning. Hot rooms had been

her bane, the eternal noise of the piano had
worn and fretted her nerves, and sitting still
hour after hour had been almost a livings
death.

Confounding these aversions with what she
had naturally supposed to be their end and
object, the unpromising pupil had straightway
avowed an open enmity with all that her unlucky
teacher had held to be of first-rate value
and importance, and there could be but one
result of such a collision of ideas. Rosamund
had been in endless hot water, and had, if the
truth were told, scarcely cared whether she
were in or out. It had at least been an outlet
for her exuberant energy and ready tongue ;
and  must we confess it ?  in finding everything
to her mind, and nearly every one
ready to fall down and worship her star rising
upon a new world, my heroine, in the absence
of every opposing force and wholesome friction,
was presently in a state to look about for
something against which to whet her teeth.

She was not to look long.

CHAPTER II.

A BORN DESPOT.

The power which you have o'er us, lies
Not in your race, but in your eyes. "

Waller.

Lady Caroline had an only sister, who, although
in point of mere age ten years older
than herself, was in everything else as many,
or as many again, her junior.

Julia  she was as universally " Julia " as
the other was " Lady " Caroline  Julia was
unmarried, and still lived at the old family
seat, within a few miles of the home to which
the youngest daughter had betaken herself on
her marriage with Mr Liscard.

The bride could not have endured, ill-natured
folks alleged, to have gone farther

away from the stately if somewhat faded and
dim glories of Portland Abbey ; could not
have borne to have felt herself a strand-er
where she had so long ruled, and where
her sway had indeed been recognised as
second only to that of the iron old peer
himself.

Some sentiments of the kind, put indeed
into another form, had certainly been gathered
by Lady Caroline's future husband ; and as he
was by no means a rich man, and could not
unaided have afforded to purchase the spacious
adjoining domain of King's Common, then in
the market, her ladyship with commendable
promptitude, and an eye to the sweets of her
position as lady of the manor, had volunteered
to become herself the owner of the place.

The investment had been considered a good
one ; but whether the handsome daughter of
the proud Lord Portland would ever have
been by him permitted to throw herself away
on a man who could not even be his own landlord,
may be a very open question, had not the

young lady herself been rather too much of a
good thing at the Abbey.

The old lord had had no objection, it is true,
to having those about him kept in order beneath
the autocratic government of a resolute
and determined viceroy ; but when it had appeared
that he also was to go Lady Caroline's
way and none other, and that her way, as
often as not, proved to be exactly opposed to
his own, there had ensued stormy weather.

Poor Julia, a gentle creature, as soft and
harmless as a puff-ball, would often be going
between one and the other half the day ere
she could effect terms ; and as she never of
herself disobeyed Caroline's mandates, never
ventured a reproof, and never was provoked
into a sharp word, it was understood on all
hands that the sisters were devoted to each
other  so much so, indeed, that when the purchase
of King's Common had been effected, all
difficulties and obstacles removed, and the
lease signed, Lady Caroline had had all the
conviction of bestowing a delightful assurance,

when she could then and there promise that,
whatever happened, whatever happened  (a
widow's, cap rose in vision before the eyes of
each, created by the emphasis)  she would
still be with her dear Julia ; still be at her
side, as she had ever been.

If Julia did occasionally wish that, short of
the widow's cap, some call or claim might
arise, which for a brief period should release
her from the constant and unremitting supervision
thus frankly promised, she took herself
to task for the sigh.

Poor Caroline always meant to be kind to
her, was always glad to see her, and gave
many and touching proofs that she was thought
about dien absent. If poor Caroline did not
infrequently do the very things in the very
vays that she, Julia, most disliked, she ought
not to let herself think too much of it. If
those trifling offences, those little annoyances,
did seem to come oftener and oftener as time
went on, she fancied it must be she who was
growing, with years, more tiresome and fool-vol.

I. B

isle, in that she took them more to heart than
she had been wont to do. She certainly had
begun to feel, in spite of herself, that there
was no actual need for her sister's 's
visit to the Abbey ; and that if she did
not of her own free will choose to give an
account of all she had done and seen since last
the two met, it needed not to have been wrung
out of her.

She was helpless in Caroline's hands.

It had long been understood that what Caroline
meant to know, she would know ; and
that what she willed, she would do ; but even
after years of submission, the pressure of the
time-worn yoke would still occasionally be felt
nay, as we have said, increasingly so.

On the other hand, Caroline loved her.
That, in itself, ought to have been sufficient
atonement for all  or so she told herself.
Caroline loved her. Theoretically, of course,
Caroline loved her husband and children ; as a
fact, she loved Julia only  and of this fact
Julia herself was dimly and sorrowfully aware.

She could not but have wished it otherwise,
as the conviction slowly grew in depth and
certainty in her own mind ; and perhaps, had
her nature been deeper and more reflective, she
might have been more troubled. But as it
was, Caroline was Caroline, and the position
had to be accepted and made the best of.

She, at least, should not be the one to complain.
For her, as she gratefully realised, that
cold heart had a warm spot ; for her, that unsparing
tongue a gentle accent ; and for her,
and her alone, was found excuse and apology
in the eye of one who never, in any other
delinquent, overlooked a blunder, understood
an inconsistency, nor forgave an offence.

Julia had indeed been the guardian angel of
Lady Caroline's infantile years ; the two motherless
little ones had been all in all to each other
then ; and if in honesty it may be suggested
that the unselfish and possibly not over-wise
affection bestowed on the younger by the most
amiable of elder sisters had helped to make
of the spoilt child the woman she afterwards

became, on the other hand it was often speculated
as to what Lady Caroline might have
been, had there been no Julia  and, as a rule,
people preferred to have her as she was, and
know the worst.

She was at least, they reflected, vulnerable
on this one point. She, who simply tolerated
those nearest and (presumably) dearest to her
and not always that  was affectionate, almost
tender, in her manner towards Lady
Julia. Her eye would soften involuntarily
as her sister's step was heard ; a caress bestowed
upon their aunt would be regarded
with complacency, even if volunteered unseasonably
by a boy or girl of her own ; and well
did all about her know on what grounds to
sue for an exemption from or a relaxation of
her rules.

For herself, Lady Caroline never broke a
rule. The sisters were unlike each other in
this, as in everything else. Lady Caroline
had stated hours for everything ; Julia did
not know what method meant. Lady Caroline

carried a note-book ; Julia forgot or remembered
as luck helped her. Lady Caroline
never indulged in surreptitious summer fires
on chilly evenings, never ate between meals,
never picked a ripe plum off the bough as she
walked in her garden, never sat up a little
later than usual at night, nor rose a little later
than usual in a morning, never bought a thing
she did not want,  never, in a word, did those
things she ought not to have done (in her own
opinion) ; and accordingly, her confession of
the same, on a Sunday morning in church,
must have referred to other matters, with
which her everyday life was in no wise
connected.

In appearance she was tall and spare, with
a handsome nose, eyes set very close together,
and a forehead from which a frown was
seldom absent. Severely dressed, and with
movements that corresponded with her slow
and frigid mental powers, she fancied herself
elegant, and would not have moved more
quickly nor actively for the world.

Julia, on the contrary, was short, plump,
brisk, undignified, loveable. Her little step
was frequently a trot, and not infrequently
a stumble  for from being somewhat shortsighted,
and not very sure of foot, and from
a sociable little way she had of turning herself
about from one to the other, and bobbing
up and down in her chair as anything caught
her attention, running forward to meet a newcomer,
and wheeling about to find her bag,
which was for ever being lost, and invariably
contained something good  Julia often came
to grief. That, the good creature did not
mind in the least. The bag would be opened,
and the sweets brought out  behind Caroline's
back, if possible ; if not, with a deprecating
'' Eeally good ones, sister, from our own
grocer, so you cannot object ; they cannot do
the dear children any harm, I am sure ; " and,
wonderful to relate, the gift would be permitted,
subject only to a faint protest.

Then Julia, who loved nothing better than
to potter round from one door to another in

the little county town, in the direction of
which she drove three or four times a-week,
and who would shop as long as she had a
sixpence in her pocket, would produce further
purchases for inspection, and, itching as it
was to curl, her sister's disdainful nose would
keep free from the temptation. Her idea was
that, by not showing contempt, she maintained 
the dignity of their aunt in the eyes of her
children.

Little she knew ! They did not care twopence
for the little spinster's dignity, and they
adored herself.

The girls would tell her their grievances,
their escapades, and the misdemeanours of
each other ; the boys confide their early
efforts with cigars, and the results attendant.
No mortal man had ever been bold enough to
ask permission to smoke even so much as a
cigarette, and that in the open air, in the
presence of the unapproachable Lady Caroline.
No dusty and footsore pedestrian had
ever been known to beg a lift in her carriage.

whereas the sight of Julia's greys would be
hailed as affording certain deliverance by the
humblest of her acquaintance.

In a word, young and old, rich and poor
alike, had goodwill toward the elder, and buta
dubious respect at the outside for the
younger ; while by the youthful members of
the family with whom this story has most todo,
the aunt would be fondled, caressed, sought
out and confided in, while the mother was
only known to be feared and evaded. That
she was a mother at all would have almost
seemed to be a mistake on the part of
Providence.

With children her imperious nature had
nothing in common. They troubled her  if
she would have let herself be troubled by
them. They had to be thought about, and
considered, and arranged for  and her time
was already fully occupied. The hours spent
at her desk had but the briefest and baldest
occasional reference to them, and they were
seldom made acquainted with any event in

which they had to take part, until the time
for action arrived.

Alone, she walked and drove. If business
took her to London, as sometimes happened,
for even a masterful steward had met his
match in her as a mistress, and she looked
closely into her investments, and kept an eye
on everything in which she held shares, besides
making inquiries roundly before she
ever signed a lease,  whenever these important
affairs required her presence in town,
she troubled no one for company.

Her maid and footman would be in attendance,
and orders would have been given for the
carriage to suit a specified train, and the coachman
would have it in black and white what
train he was to meet on the following day (for
she rarely remained away beyond a night) , and
that would be all that the household, including
husband and children, knew of the matter.

I shall have to go to town tomorrow,"
Lady Caroline would remark of an evening,
after the latter had gone to bed.

Have you sent word to the stables 1 "
would be Mr Liscard's reply. And indeed he
only desired to know, because, if not, it meant
his stretching out his hand to ring the bell.

As for offering his own escort, or inquiring
into the cause for the journey, neither idea
would occur to him. He might, and occasionally
did, volunteer a trifling commission  one
not attended with difficulty nor trouble ; and
it would be punctually attended to if all went
well otherwise. If not, he knew better than
to ask about it.

One specimen of the lady of the manor
within her own precincts, and we have done
with her; in future she shall speak and act
for herself.

All alone, Caroline 1 " Some one peeped
in at the door, and a well-known voice made
the above inquiry.

Lady Caroline turned round. " You, Julia ?
Come in. Yes, we shall be alone. I always
am, as you know, at this hour."

The sisters embraced.

"I thought that perhaps, now that Eosa-
mind is grown up, she would be your companion
in the mornings," began Eosamund's
kind aunt, whose delight it was to have anyone
of the girls, but especially the above-named
favourite niece, to " companion " her at
the Abbey.

I prefer being alone when I am busy,"
replied Lady Caroline, calmly. " There is no
need for Rosamund to be here."

'' Can she not help you at all, my dear ?
Such a pile of letters,  such dreadful-looking
documents," and Julia glanced apprehensively
at the laden writing-table. " I have always
so longed for a nice little secretary,  but, to
be sure, you are so much cleverer than I ;
you always could manage your own correspondence."


"Yes, my dear, always." Lady Caroline
looked also at the heavy pile, but with complacent
satisfaction, and no sign of distaste.

Still it would be nice  such a dear, bright
girl," hinted the aunt, who had her own little

ideas too, and had been ruminating over the
matter in private ; "it would be nice, would
it not '? " she said, and paused.

What would be nice ? "

To have some one by, my dear, to talk to,
and  and consult with ; and discuss what has
to be done, you know ; invitations, you know,
and  and arrangements."

If it had been any one but Julia who spoke !
As it was, Lady Caroline looked at her sister,
and faintly smiled. She consult and discuss !
She saw herself doing it, and wondered what
would be expected of her next '?

"Well, well, you understand your own
affairs, of course, my dear," hastily amended
the docile elder  for, to tell the truth, that
smile was sufficient answer for her or for
any one. " I perceive you do not mean to
make a companion of Eosamund."

My dear Julia, let us understand each
other. I certainly intend to make every
difference  every recognised difference  between
a daughter introduced into society and

those still in the schoolroom. Eosamund,
as you know, is quite taken away from her
governess ; she has all her meals with us ;
she has had a complete wardrobe of new
things to wear ; and she sits up till ten o'clock
in the evening. I really do not see what
more could be done for her. She has only
not been presented at Court, because of our
recent mourning, and my severe cold in the
spring,  we thought it as well to put that off
to another year, as you remember ; but apart
from that, she has had everything that others
have on such occasions. I have stretched a
point to take her to every piece of gaiety that
has come in our way. Besides which, she
will have a season in town next year, unless 
unless anything happens in the meantime."

Lady Julia nodded. She understood. Yes,
to be sure ; unless anything happened. Caroline
and she knew to what that proviso referred.

Eosamund really does very well'' continued
Lady Caroline, with what was quite a
comfortable, cosy, chatty tone for her. " Come

out of the sun, Julia. I am not very busy
this morning. I can go on with my writing
presently. What I was going to say was, I
consider that Eosamund is quite up to the
mark as compared with other girls of her age.
She is fond of amusement, as I suppose they
all are, and she has had plenty of it, one
way and another."

Julia made an involuntary movement. Had
not Eosamund, the very day before, been
wailing into her ear complaints of the difficulty
with which Lady Caroline was induced
to look favourably upon any festive note of
preparation, and of the tortures of anxiety to
be gone through ere her opinion of any proposed
merrymaking was announced ?

"We have several dinner-parties for this
month," proceeded the speaker, entirely unconscious,
"and to all of these Eosamund
accompanies us. The houses are full of 
; and it really seems as if it rained
invitations," unfolding with an easy air a note
by her side.

From Wormwood," said Lady Julia ; " and
are you asked to the Waterfields' also ? "

*' Oh, yes," replied her sister ; " and to the
rectory to meet the Bishop, and to the
Bishop's to lunch after the Church festival.
Indeed there seems no end to it," proceeded
the speaker, who detested society, but was
still fain to have it thought that she and hers
were in popular request. "There is that ball,
too "

Oh, a ball ! '' Julia's eye brightened.
Here was something at least for that poor
child ; for, good woman as she was, it must
be owned that her very soul within her had
revolted before the picture of Rosamond's
episcopal dissipations. Bishops were nice
enough  for her and Caroline ; quite the
right sort of playmates for them,  and, to own
the truth, she would have liked very well to
have taken her niece's place at the bachelor-bishop's
comfortable board on the proposed
occasion,  but she had not been asked, and
could hardly offer. Still she did feel that a

baby in long clothes would be scarcely more
out of place among all the grave elders to be
met at the palace, than her chatterton of a
Eosamund. But a ball  come, that was many
degrees better ; and she demanded, almost with
Eosamund's own eagerness, "What ball is
that, Caroline?"

"I hardly know whether to go or not,"
replied Lady Caroline ; *' here is the card. I
have not yet said anything about it, and
luckily no one was at home when it arrived.
Two soldiers in full uniform brought it ; you
have no idea how smart they looked."

Eeally ! " cried Julia, entering into the
spirit of the thing.

** Oh yes ; I could not imagine what it was
I saw moving under the trees. I could not
think what two soldiers could be coming upto
our front door for," continued the narrator,
with the unction of one to whom the sight
had been quite an event, as indeed it had 
King's Common being the dullest of dull
country houses, with nothing but a huge uninteresting

park on the one side, and woods
and dull dripping avenues on the other ; and
had it not been for a private reason, with
which our reader has at present nothing todo,
the item of news would have been brought
forward sooner. As it was, after a moment's
pause. Lady Caroline returned to Rosamond.

She has style, my dear, and that is everything.
She is not more than ordinarily pretty
at least / do not think so. Some people
do, I believe ; but I own I am glad that a
daughter of mine should not look commonplace.
That Eosamund will never do. She
attracts notice at once. She can talk and
laugh brightly ; and I am told she can be
very amusing," averred Lady Caroline, seeing
nothing at all peculiar in so having to be
'told"; "and what is also a good thing,"
she continued dispassionately, " Rosamund
can look well in anything she chooses to
wear. Not that / should ever permit a child
of mine to be badly dressed," proceeded the
speaker, who had never been known to allow

VOL. I. c

that anytlnDg in any way pertaining to or
emanating from herself was not faultless ;
''my children are all suitably clad." (although
the colours of their poor frocks do
set my teeth on edge," commented her auditor,
with rueful recollection.) " But Rosamond
is now her own mistress in that respect,"
continued Lady Caroline, " and  but
I have no need to tell you the use she makes
of her liberty. You know her of old. A
frock ruined in a week  that was her way.
Even now, nothing pleases her more than to
smuggle on the worst and shabbiest of her
old clothes, and make off out of sight whenever
a carriage drives up ; though I have told
her constantly that she ought to be fit to be
seen at all times. I had been quite annoyed
about it, until  well, until after what Ford
said. You remember what Ford said '? "
Now Lady Julia knew what Ford had said
off by heart, but it never wearied her to
hear it afresh, and she was only too glad
that the compliment should be engraved

on Caroline's memory, as it was on her
own.

Yes. What was it exactly ? " she now
murmured in an encouraging accent.

I thought I had told you. There she
was, flying in from the garden, with a frightful,
frayed, worn-out shawl over her shoulders ;
and an old cap, or hat, I forget which it was,
of some of her brothers, which she had torn ofl"
the stand, this make-shift thing battered down
over her ears ; and her hair all wild, curling
and streaming in the wind, and such a colour,
well, she really did look wonderfully pretty,"
owned Lady Caroline, nature for a moment
asserting itself; " and as for Ford, you should
have heard him. ' Good heavens ! ' he exclaimed
 under his breath, you know  ' Good
heavens ! what a perfect Hebe ! ' and he never
took his eyes ofi" her during the whole remainder
of his stay. He told me afterwards
he was ' fairly dazzled '  those were his very
words. An artist, you know : one must forgive
the exaggeration."

I cannot even see it," said Julia, smiling.

-Julia ?"

'' Well, Caroline ? "

Lady Caroline's tone bad changed, and she
had drawn nearer to her sister.

"Do you  have you  I hardly know how
to put it, and it is so long since we have
talked on the subject, but  have you any
sort of idea of what  what Portland thinks
of her  "

Julia shook her head. She had none.

CHAPTEE HI.

Lord Garland S WILL.

Wealth oft sours in keeping."

Charles.

Who was Portland ? Hartlancl was the man
of the place. There usually is in a country
neighbourhood some one person or other who
overshadows and exalts it, with whom its
choicest associations are connected, and whose
sayings and doings are the most grateful food
to its palate.

In the present instance, Lord Portland was
just such a person  the chosen representative
of the affections and interests of the parish of
Inkerton-on-the-wold.

He was not, however, strictly speaking, a
son of the soil. That soil, indeed, his feet

had never trod, his eyes had never beheld his
own grey walls, and his ears had never been
assailed by what should have been his native
dialect, until within two years of the time at
which our story commences.

It will thus be seen that it is not of the
grim old progenitor of the two ladies already
introduced in these pages that we at present
speak.

Two years previous to the date we have
now reached, the aged peer had indeed been
the Lord Portland, and the only Lord Hart-land,
so far as he or any one else had been
aware  while the one who subsequently became
so had been a mere Dick Verelst in a
marching regiment, the younger son of a
younger son, who, although known to be possible
heir to a title and estate for want of a
better, had been getting no sort of good of the
prospect.

Mr Verelst, senior, had not been a kinsman
with whom the old peer had had a feeling, a
taste, a virtue, or a vice in common ; and the

sense of personal animosity borne him, in consequence
of his being next in succession, had
been such that he had never chosen to set
eyes upon the young man, an only son, and
indeed only child. It had seemed to him inexpressibly
hard that he should have to leave
all or nearly all he possessed of British soil
to these interlopers, these cousins who were
doubtless reckoning on every acre of it, and
impatiently awaiting the time when it should
be theirs ; and accordingly, to will away from
them all the money he could, to rob their
accession of its sweetness as much as was possible,
and to line the earl's coronet with thorns,
in the shape of future troubles and annoyances,
had been the old gentleman's not very creditable
aim when arranoino- his affairs, and confronting
the fact, that help for it there was
none  this twopenny-halfpenny Verelst, this
banking fellow in Calcutta, with his oaf of a
son coming[ after him, must at his own demise
succeed to the honours of his ancient house.
To make these honours as empty as the law

gave him power to do, had been, as we have
said, his object.

Then the banking fellow had died, and there
had been a pause of consideration.

Should the youngster be sent for, educated,
and adopted ?

But, my dear father, he is twenty-five
years old," had remonstrated Lady Julia,
timidly.

Twenty-five years old  and what, pray, is
twenty-five years old ? " The fierce old man
had turned upon her. " You will think little
enough of twenty-five when you come to be
eighty-five, I can tell you. Twenty-five is a
boy. I tell you the future Lord Portland is
a boy. He knows nothing ; he has seen nothing
; he has learnt nothing. If I am to have
him here, he must be taught. The young cub
must be licked into shape. I won't have a
ploughboy about the place. Twenty-five ?
What's twenty-five ? Damme, he shall go to
Eton ! "

Clearly the old man had been failing even

as he spoke. He had harked back to the idea
with many a wild and strange suggestion, and
had ended by sending a peremptory summons
to the young Verelst to return to England
forthwith. The same mail had brought the
news of the writer's death.

It will thus be seen to whom it was that
Lady Caroline referred at the close of the
conversation narrated in the last chapter.
The " Portland " she meant was the young
soldier who had met with so sudden a change
in his fortunes, and who, on learning that he
had come into possession of a title and estate,
but without the means of maintaining either
suitably, had merely designed stopping long
enough in England to arrange his affairs, and
then returning to India to rejoin his regiment,
and pursue his profession as before.

But a counter-project had been in store for
him.

"It is simply out of the question the poor
dear boy's being allowed to starve." Lady
Julia had trotted over to King's Common, big

with a mighty purpose, as soon as the contents
of their father's will had left it in no
sort of doubt that he had successfully accomplished
that amiable design.

It is certainly a pity," her sister had conceded,
for whose credit it would have been
undoubtedly preferable that the reigning head
of the house, whoever he might be, should
have had a decent coat on his back. *' I had
no idea that my father would have done anything
so foolish," she had further added, with
asperity.

Poor dear papa ! I am sure that if he
had only been permitted to live," the milder
daughter had sighed, "he would have made
another will. If he had only lived to see and
welcome this nice young man."
Lady Caroline had smiled.
Well, my dear, I am sure he is nice," the
little spinster had valiantly protested. ''He
writes as if he were  (which he had not, for his
letters were the worst part of him)  " and we
have at any rate no reason for supposing he is

not. But however, Caroline," the speaker had
hastened on, " that is not what I came hereabout
to-day. Portland must be provided for."

* I think so,  yes."

'' One of your dear girls," in the lowest of
whispers.

*' One of my girls, Julia V

But Lady Caroline had not been startled,
nor offended, nor outraged by the suggestion.
The same thing had, in fact, already occurred
to herself ; and with Julia  Julia, before
whom she kept up no state, intrenched herself
within no bulwarks  she had scarcely
made even any feint of miscomprehension.
She had had a pretty shrewd guess of what
Julia would be at, as soon as the contents
of the will had been made known, and accordingly
 " One of my girls, Julia ? " was
all that had been said, interrogatively and
suggestively.

Then with many a babbling digression, and
many a twist and turn, but with good sound
sense at the bottom of the speaker's honest

simple-minded scheme, the whole had come
out. She could not, by law, herself provide for
Portland, either by leaving him all or part of
her ample fortune. It had principally come to
her, as to Caroline, through their mother, and
to their mother's family it must in some form
return, as both knew ; but all or any of her
sister's children could inherit from their aunt.

In order to be quite certain about it, I put
it twice to Mr Steward, sister, and that in the
very plainest language. I inquired of him
whether I were at perfect liberty to leave my
fortune to any one of your dear girls, to the
exclusion of the others. It seemed rather
cruel to exclude the others," (parenthetically),
but then I did not name any one ; and so as
it may be any one, so it may be any others
who would be excluded. That being so, I
think it could hardly be called unfair  could
it, Caroline 1 "

Caroline had smiled, for it had been Julia
speaking.

Well, my dear," with revived animation.

he said there was no hindrance of any kind.
I might select any member of your family, son
or daughter  (but I did not want a son, as I
told him  I said it was one of my dear nieces
whom I wished to select). However, he said
it was all one ; I might make my choice, and
as soon as I had chosen, he could have a will
made out. But now, my dear Caroline, comes
the difficulty. How can I make my choice,
when Portland has not yet made his choice 1
Oh, my dear, I beg your pardon. I am too
gross ; but pray forgive me,  I forgot myself
in my anxiety. Pray, my dear Caroline,
understand that it is only your good, our
good, the good of the family, I have at heart.
I am carried away by it. Of course it is not

for Portland to choose "

And of course he may decline doing anything
of the kind." Lady Caroline had not
cared two straws for the outspokenness, and
had only been ruminating with bent brow on
the feasibility of the scheme. Her pride was
not for Julia.

We may be quite open with each other," she
had declared presently. "You may say to me
what you please, Julia ; but you will, you must,
be discreet towards him. Whatever happens,
it will be absolutely necessary "  with upraised
finger  " to be discreet with Portland."

I must say something to him, you know."

Impossible ! Not a syllable."

But, my dear, did you not see his last
letter ? He only proposes stopping a few
weeks, and then," tearfully, " shutting up the
Abbey, sending away the servants, and going
back to India."

Turning you out of it V

He does not know of my existence. He-would
not do such a thing for the world, if
he did. But I do not want to live there all
alone," poor Julia had dolefully declared. " I
want him to live with me. We should get on
together excellently, I know; and it would
make things smooth all round."

But why need anything be said as to the
future ?"

"It is not likely"  Julia had been unusually
sagacious  " that any young man
Twould throw up his profession, to be dependent
on an elderly relative, unless there were
some sort of settlement."

You are right' Lady Caroline had interrupted,
brusquely. " Still, it is awkward."

For you it might be, but for me it need
not at all. I put it to him as purely my own
idea ; I tell him that I have an arrangement 
a family arrangement  in my mind, which I
should like him to think over, and let me
presently have his opinion of. Then I talk of
your  of our dear girls  praise them "

I should leave that alone."

You would not even tell him they are nice
and pretty."

I should let him find it out for himself
Besides, they are at present altogether too
young. Rosamund is barely sixteen, and I
cannot have any nonsense about her. There
must be no Dhilanderins: after them and their
governess, mind."

But he may just see them 1 "

Oh yes, he may see them,"  even Lady
Caroline had laughed. " They are not exactly
enclosed in a nunnery, my dear, that you
should look so despairing. He may see them,
and talk to them  occasionally. He will not
care for it often ; they have none of them anything
to say "

"Dear ! I find them so delightfuL"

Ah, they are fond of you," with softened
tone ; " you draw out what is in them, I suppose
; it is not every one who can. But to
return to Portland : you should lay the matter
in a purely business-like manner before him.
Tell him what you can do, and what you
would be disposed to do, and let him judge for
himself. It is no matter of sentiment "

Oh, my dear Caroline ! "

In the meantime," Lady Caroline had prosaically
continued, 'the new Lord Portland
will be short of money. It is really disgraceful
 I am extremely annoyed about it ; but I
understand "

"Oh, that will be all right" Julia had
recovered her early spirits and ardour,  " that
I can do  I mean I can make him comfortable
at once. While I live, I make Portland a
handsome allowance, and also keep up the
Abbey entirely at my own expense. As long
as he continues single, I preside there  as I
have always done, you know  keep house for
him, and receive his friends. Then when he
marries Rosamund  or any one of my dear
nieces  in order to enable him to do so, I step
forward and settle all I have upon her, after
my death. She would then simply join our
party ; I am easy to get on with, I really
think ; and I would be in no one's way.
There is room for all. Oh, my dear, I do
hope, I do hope it will come to pass."

"You are very good, Julia." Lady Caroline's
voice had been rather low, and almost
soft,  as soft as it was capable of being.
*' You are very good and kind," she had continued
after a pause, *' and the young people
ought to be grateful to you. There is, of

VOL. I. D

course, one person yet to be be considered
"

"Your husband Certainly."

"No; Portland. What if his affections
are already engaged ? "

Then Julia's face had fallen.

'' I hardly think they can be," she had murmured
; "he is only twenty-five."

"Twenty-five is a most susceptible age."

Our father talked as if he were a schoolboy."


"Talking would not make him one. His
having had nothing to marry upon is the
more probable hindrance."

"And in his photograph he looks not in the
least like an engaged man. There is nothing
at all pre-occupied about the expression. He
has such a nice, open face, so handsome, and
and, oh, I am sure he is not a person to
conceal anything."

There would be no concealment in the
matter. No one has ever asked for his confidence."


*' Very true. But still  somehow, my dear,
I feel that what I say is true. He is free,  I
am sure he is free,  I have a presentiment
that he is free, and that he will marry my
own dear little Rosamond."

There was no more to be said.

UBRARV

CHAPTER lY.

LADY JULIA FINDS A REMEDY.

Despatch thy purposed good : quick, courteous deeds
Cause thanks. Slow favour men unthankful breeds."

Tr. from AusoNius.

The acute reader will at this point instantly
divine either that Portland had not been free,
or that he had proved to be in all respects
different from what Lady Julia's fond and outrageous
fancy had painted him.

Nothing of the kind.

Portland had been destined merely to moderate,
not to belie, her anticipations.

He was not a schoolboy, but he was a very
young man for his age. He was not handsome,
but he had a plain, dark face, by no
means devoid of attraction. He had not

fallen headlong into her scheme for his happiness,
but neither had he flatly refused to
discuss it.

He had listened, and once she had caught
him smiling.

He had looked at her with a pair of curious
eyes, when she had become excited and demonstrative,
and the look had once made her
stop short and colour up, when, in seeking to
be practical, she had found herself growing
rather too explicit.

But he had not made himself disagreeable,
nor her uncomfortable, as he might have done ;
he had not thrust obstacles and contingencies
forward ; he had not even worn a forbidding
expression ; and she had had it all out, even
to the rates and taxes, without his having
offered any sort of hindrance.

In truth, the idea thus presented to him
had not been without its own charm for the
young man. He was, as we have said, in
many respects young, almost boyish, for his
age. His predilections  the things he cared

most for, and was most interested in  were
rather those of a lad of eighteen than of one
who had early seen something of the world,
and gained a measure of experience. Delighting
and excelling in the great games of Old
England, equally, or almost equally good at
cricket and football, his never having been at
a public school was felt by him as a thing to
be regretted all his life; and had such a notion
been feasible, he would cheerfully, even in his
twenty-sixth year, have gone to Eton, Winchester,
or Harrow, as old Lord Portland had
proposed.

His delight was in the talk of bio: lads fresh
from these time-honoured haunts. He liked
to hear of all that went on there, and was
never weary of hearkening, never impatient
of the importance attached to the rules, and
oddities, and idiosyncrasies of each.

Of his own prowess in feats of running,
jumping, and riding he was reasonably proud.
Nature had bestowed on him a form so beautifully
proportioned, that he could not be ungraceful,

do what he wouki, and in every
athletic exercise, with one exception, he excelled.
That exception was swimming, and,
oddly enough, this simple art he had never
been at the pains to acquire.

But he could hunt, and Lady Julia had
spoken of hunting : he could shoot, and she
had evidently expected him to shoot : he
loved fields and woods, grassy meadows and
green hedgerows ; and it was the month of
June, and all Nature had laid itself out, as it
were, in seductions for him. It seemed as
if, until he had actually set foot on English
soil, he had never fully realised all he would
have to abandon, did he return at once, as he
had meant to do, to India ; and yet his heart
had been sore enough before.

Then, however, he had only drawn pictures
from memory and hearsay  now he saw.

London had been teeming with life and
revelry as he had passed through, and he had
been obliged to stop a day there in order to
see his lawyer, who had been out of town on

his arrival. He had seen the sunlit Now at
noon on a glorious morning, and had noted
the brilliancy, the sparkle of the scene  the
gloss on the horses' coats  the idle luxury of
the loungers  the white dresses of the girls 
the pretty children  and proud young fathers
and mothers. He had been bewildered and
confused subsequently by the uproar in the
more crowded streets, and had experienced
that sense of forlornness and utter loneliness
common to all who have no ties nor links to
hang on to in the great city ; and then he had
betaken himself to Lord's, and had seen such
cricket as he had never seen before in his life.

That had settled the question. If he could
could by any means, any reductions or curtailments
 contrive to remain in England,
live at Portland Abbey, have a team of his
own, challenge other teams, go up and down
the country,  he had seen the whole thing
before him, as he had mused and watched in
silence.

It might not have been a very exalted castle

in the air ; it had been at least a wholesome,
pure, and innocent one. If it had not evinced
much sense of the responsibilities of a landowner,
nor of the cares and duties of an English
country gentleman, recollect that of these
Portland had at that time known nothing,
and not having intended to take up that
position had not supposed he was ever to
know anything.

He had been, as we have said, a big boy
at that period of his life, needing training,
time, and development, to show what he would
with years become. Meantime it may just
be added that he had, at least, had nothing
to unlearn. Vice had never had any
attractions.

At Lord's, for a wonder. Lord Portland had
presently been hailed by voices he knew. Two
young men with whom he had once been
quartered, had seen him, and had hurried
across the ground to offer congratulations and
make inquiries. It had appeared they knew
the Abbey,  knew at least that its coverts

were in good repute, and that there were two
packs of hounds in the neighbourhood.

They had been more than friendly  we had
almost said in consequence ; but that might
have been doing two respectable youths injustice.
They had always liked Dick Verelst,
as most people did ; and they had been only a
little more glad to see him, and a little more
anxious that he should dine with them at their
club that evening, now that he was a jolly
young fellow just come in for a title, than if
he had been dear old Dick the cricketer, runover
in order to see the first big match of the
season. Portland had been unable to say
as much, or respond as cordially as he would
otherwise have done, from the awkwardness
of his position ; and the frankness of former
times had somehow been absent. It had been
taken for granted, assumed as a matter of
course, from his rejoinders, that he was going
to settle down in England, and lead a merry,
hearty, homely English life. This had been
as it should be. His friends were of the right

sort  men who, like himself, were ensnared
by the follies and vices of fashionable dissipation
; and he would have liked then and thereto
have made them free of the Abbey, with all
its congenial surroundings.

But he had been necessarily hampered by
uncertainty and doubt, and had had to let the
two honest fellows depart, feeling that he had
been ungracious, and that they would only
too probably consider that he was already putting
on airs, and preparing to cold-shoulder
those whom he had known and associated within
early days.

It will thus be seen that the ground had
been already prepared for Lady Julia's seed.

No wonder that she had been heard with
mute attention, when she had had something
of such importance to communicate : no wonder
he had remained silent till she had done.
So I am to marry Eosamund," at length he
had said ; but whether to marry Rosamund or
not was his intention, no mortal could have
told.

Oh, my dear Portland, not yet. I only
thought it might be as well to mention it ; but,
indeed, you must do nothing rashly. The idea
is quite, quite, quite my own. My dear niece
is barely sixteen, and in short frocks. It will
be fully two years before her mother would
hear of such a thing ; for my sister is very
particular, and the girls are never brought forward
in any way ; they are kept strictly to
the schoolroom at present. You will see them
walking with their governess, or riding on
their ponies ; and you will notice what nice,
bright, charming young creatures they are, 
but you will not speak to them "

'' Not speak to them ? "

Not unless it is just to say ' How d'ye
do '? ' or so. Their mother would not like it.
She has the greatest objection to their being
taken notice of in any way. Between you and
me, I do not quite altogether see it in the
same light my sister does. It does seem a
little hard that one is never able to get at the
dear girls without Miss Penrose  good creature

as Miss Penrose is " (Lady Julia detested her,
but thought herself most uncharitable for
doing so)  " it would be so nice sometimes to
have them to one's self," she had owned ; " but
it is of no use. Their uncle, George Liscard,
a nice young lieutenant in the navy, got into
sad hot water the last time he was at King's
Common, for romping with the girls on the

sly."

*' Eh '? " Portland had roused himself, and
his lips had parted into an interested smile.
'Did he?"

Rosamund is perhaps a little, just a little
bit of a romp," the candid Julia had proceeded.
"She will grow out of it; and there is no
harm in the dear child as she is  only high
spirits. For my part, I love high spirits in
the young ; and sometimes I almost wish my
dear sister could have more sympathy with
them ; but, however, all I mean to say is, that
I must warn you not to frolic with your
cousins."

"It is rather a queer way of warning me,"

and there had been still the same lurking
smile,  '* telling me that I am to marry one
of them."

'' Oh, my dear Portland, you are so downright.
I begin to fear I ought not to have mentioned
such a thing ; but really I was at a loss
to know what to do, and I thought it might make
your mind easy about the future, if you knew
the whole plan I had in my head. There need
be no reserve between us as to money matters,
that is one thing decided. It is a hard case
that you should have come home as head of
the family, with all the attendant obligations
and requirements, and so much to keep up and
support, and  and nothing to support it on."

Upon this Lord Portland had bent his head.
She had stated the case precisely as it stood.
He had been grave enough then.

But see, I am wealthy ; I have abundance,
more than abundance, for us both," Lady Julia
had cried next, rising from her chair in her
anxiety to be clear and emphatic. *' Independently
of what my dear father left me.

which should have gone to you''  in parenthesis
 " quite apart from that, Caroline and
I each inherited a large fortune from our
mother, who was an only child and the
daughter of a very rich man. My father
knew this, and, knowing it, I cannot but say
that I do not feel he acted quite rightly, not
quite as I am sure he would have done had
he lived longer ; but, my dear Portland," 
for the speaker had been eager to be off such
slippery, uncomfortable, and altogether dangerous
ground,  " my dear Portland, make
allowances. He was, I grieve to say, blinded
by prejudice. I have no doubt your father
was an excellent man ; but you see, mine did
not know him, and no doubt did him injustice.
It is difficult to be just to one's next
heir, is it not ? We need not talk about it.
My dear nephew  let me call you my nephew,
if you do not mind  it will simplify matters,
and people will quite understand and accept
the position,  my dear Portland, let me make
what amends lie in my power ; let me continue

to live in your house, preside over your establishment,
entertain your friends, share my
fortune with you now, and bequeath it to
you hereafter. And I only ask one thing,"
the excellent creature had wound up in conclusion,
with the tear running down her cheek;
give me a place in your heart, and let me be
your ' Aunt Julia.' "

If such a conclusion had been bathos, at
least Portland had not found it so. He had
been greatly touched.

During all the long journey home, when
returning from India to take up his new position
and enter into his barren kingdom, bitter
thoughts and angry resolutions had filled his
heart. He had been almost immediately informed
 informed ere he had started  that
nothing but an income altogether insufficient
went with the title, and that he would find
himself short of funds at the very outset of his
new career; and there had in consequence
been merely a brief interval in which he had
dreamed of being a Lord Portland such as the

Lord Garlands who bad ozone before him had
been.

The cup had barely been sipped ere it had
been rudely dashed from his hand ; and he
had, as we have said, seen that there was but
little for him in the future that the past had
not possessed. In one way he would be even
worse off, since more would undoubtedly be
expected of Lord Portland than had ever been
exacted of Dick Verelst, and he would find
himself in a false position at every turn in his
new career.

No wonder, then, that his wrath bad been
kindled and had burned hot for a time, and
that it had been freshly lit, and had sent forth
sparks and flames anew on his arrival at the
Abbey. He had done his best to hold himself
in check, and no outward manifestations, either
of suffering or indignation, had escaped to
tarnish the favourable impression one and all
had received. Nothing but profound pity and
universal goodwill had been felt all round ;
and although the keener-sighted had instinct.

I. E

lively divined that beneath the calm exterior
all was not so smooth as had appeared, they
had liked Portland not the less, but rather the
more, in that he had shown he could smart
but would not show his wound.

The blood had more than once flashed to his
face, and his eye had striven to betray him
now and again, it is true, when irresistibly
impelled to it by some new and sudden circumstance
or suggestion ; but in the main his
demeanour had been proudly impassive, and
Lady Julia, in her distress and impatience,
had scarcely known how to bear the delay
which had had to elapse ere she had been able
to get him to herself and unburden her bosom
of its load.

She had done it at last, and had heard him
breathe quicker and quicker, as the scheme
had been unfolded. The hand by his side
had opened and closed involuntarily with
hasty nervous movements. He had stood the
whole time, sometimes in one attitude, sometimes
in another, always with the air of a man

who hardly knows where he is or what he is
doing. She had seen he was lost in a confusion
of strange and new emotions. And
such indeed had been the case.

Here had he, in his own mind, been at
bitter enmity with all his newly found kindred
; in especial railing secretly at those two
greedy, covetous women, who were now to
fatten at his expense, and who would doubtless
assume towards him patronising, hypocritical
airs of sympathy ; while in reality it
was they who were driving him forth from the
home of his ancestors, and standing between
him and his just inheritance.

What though he had been only a poor
second cousin or so ? Two generations back
his branch had sprouted straight and true
from this lordly stem ; and those great lords
and ladies, those ruffled dames and knights
in armour, had belonged to him, and bequeathed
to him their noble blood as truly
as if he had been the late peer s first-born son,
born and bred within those walls.

He had been, and he was being, most cruelly
wronged ; and though he had told himself that
his lips should be sealed by decency and that
reserve which was the only safeguard of his
self-respect under an ordeal so odious, yet he
had in secret wished good Julia anywhere but
where she was, and almost anything but what
she was.

For he had seen  as who could help seeing ?
that she was artless, and it had not been
easy to accuse her. Probably she was a
simpleton, and did not know what she was
doing. In that case he would try to be
charitable ; and if let alone, and not compassionate
nor provoked, would put her out
of his thoughts. She might live on at the
Abbey if she chose. He supposed she would
pay him rent, and the rent would be swallowed
up in the yearly outlay. He would let her
and the steward manage between them, and
get to loggerheads about it if they chose. He
would cut the whole concern.

One sight of Portland Abbey, with its

lodges, its avenues, its deer-park, shrubberies,
gardens, stables, out-buildings, terraces, and
doorways, with its halls, staircases, galleries,
and suites of rooms, had dispelled all hopes
of accomplishing the design formed of living
there on a modest and retrenched scale. No,
the impossibility of this had been obvious
at a glance ; and ere he had crossed the
threshold, he had seen his future anew melt
into thin air. Then had come the meetings
with Lady Julia, and renewal of all hostile
feelings ; and then, just when these had been
at their height, and some little sion had
escaped, some bubble had rippled to the
surface, telling for a second of the convulsion
underneath, and giving the poor spinster,
who had been on the tiptoe of excitement and
impatience, the opening she wanted, out it
had all come ; and it had been shown that
the two whom he had regarded as the most
unjust and avaricious of their kind, had had
nothing but the warmest of feelings towards
him, and had been occupied by projects for

his benefit, surpassing anything of which he
could ever had dreamed. Shame had tied his
tongue forthwith.

How he had wronged this good creature 
both these good creatures  (for in every sentiment
and expression, Lady Julia had naturally
associated with herself her sister, and it
had been '' Caroline and I " throughout) ; how
he had misjudged and misinterpreted them !

The flood of new light let in upon his
thoughts had been wellnigh overpowering.
Impossibility had become possible ; what he
had told himself could never be, had actually
come to pass. Portland Abbey was to be his
own, and his own on the easiest and pleas-attest
terms : it had been almost incredible,
almost too much. It had been a positive relief
to talk about the unknown Eosamund,
and by trifling a moment with her name,
and that dim, far-away suggestion regarding
it, gain a foothold whereupon to steady himself.
He had even been the better for having
interchanged smiles with his friendly monitor.

and having been told he was not to romp with
his cousins.

But still his head had gone whirling round ;
and all she, this ministering angel, had asked
of him in return, had been that he should call
her his "Aunt Julia"!

He had taken her hand. He might have
kissed it, but he had not thought of doing so.
He had only taken it and held it for a moment,
while his voice, in spite of every effort,
had trembled a little, and all he had said was,
* Thank you, Aunt Julia ; " but she had been
certain  yes, quite certain  that he had
stopped thus short because he had been unable
to bring out another word.

And she had been right.

CHAPTEE V.

NO ADVANCE MADE.

For what is love ? It is a doll dressed up
For idleness to cosset, nurse, and dandle ;
A thing of soft misnomers."

Keats,

So far from being upset by this new change
in his fortunes, Portland had thereafter hardly
known how to demean himself humbly enough
in the sudden revulsion of his feelings.

He had on the spot, as was natural, surrendered
every spark of lingering animosity
towards the generous woman who had stepped
forward to redress all his wrongs with her own
hand ; nay, he had gone further : in his inmost
soul he had cast himself at her feet and
implored forgiveness.

She had bound him to her then and therein
a lifelong bond of gratitude and affection,
and he could not show sufficiently his readiness
to do and be all she could wish thenceforth.


In response to her nobility he had longed
to evince his own. He could not hope to
win, but he would at least compete with her
in the race who should be the most considerate
and the most unselfish in the life now begun ;
and such desires on his part had for a considerable
length of time shown themselves in
his scarcely liking to give an order, change a
custom, or play the master of the house in
any way. Then Lady Julia had protested.
My dear boy, you are really too good, too
kind ; you make too much of the old aunt''
she had cried. " I cannot have you putting
me first in everything, and never thinking of
yourself at all."

You think you ought to have the monopoly
for that. Aunt Julia 1 "

She had not understood, and he had not

explained. The idea had dropped out by
accident.

*' But really you are too accommodating,"
she had persisted. " Why, because / have
been accustomed to old-fashioned ways, need
you be condemned to them ? You cannot
like to dine at six o'clock ; then why do it ?
For myself, really I should prefer  yes, indeed,
quite prefer  keeping up with the
fashions of the day ; and I am not so very
old yet, you know," smiling. '' I love young
folks, and suiting myself to them. My poor
dear father kept to his early dinner-hour because
it was the one at which he had dined in
his youth, and he disliked changes of every
kind. But that need not bind us. Fix your
own hours, I must really beg of you. Hart-land."
And she had felt genuinely elated, and
almost rakish, when he had owned with reluctance
that the hour at which he had usually
sat down to mess had been half-past seven : he
had not added that by some, even that hour
was growing to be considered out of date.

That decided, another point had arisen.
The stables, my dear Portland,  I am
convinced you know more about horses than
I do."

Yes, Aunt Julia," gravely.

"Why do you not rearrange them, then,
my dear (His very finger-tips had been
itching to do so.)

Do you think they want rearranging,
ma'am ? I thought perhaps Hubbard might
not care for interference."

Interference from you 1 From his master '? "

Oh, if you put it in that light, Aunt Julia,"
joyfully; "but are you sure you mean what
you say ? Have I your authority for doing
what I think fit, and  and '? "

My dear nephew,"  she had been almost
pettish,  " will you never understand 1 I have
no authority, I will have none any longer,
about such matters as ought to fall under a
master's eye. You will see that I am comfortable,
and that things go on properly, I
know. But you are the head of this establishment,

to you the servants must look for
orders, on you their staying or going depends ;
and it is not you who must come to me for
authority, but / who will go to you, if there
is any matter of importance or difficulty to
be adjusted. Pray, pray, my dear Portland,
let us have no misunderstanding on this point,
either now or in the future."

And she had again struck the right chord in
his heart, and he had loved her still more than
he had done before.

Of course it had been a risk, but even Lady
Caroline had never for a moment cast a doubt
upon the success of Julia s handiwork.

Had she been unblessed, perhaps matters
had not been so smooth ; but with the knowledge
of all that Julia had plotted and planned,
and the understanding that it had at least not
been set aside by the .person most chiefly concerned,
she would have been a fool indeed if
she had found anything to grumble at.

To her Portland had been only one degreeless
grateful than to her sister.

Lady Julia's protestations had, as 'e have
seen, included her married sister, the only
other representative of the family, at every
turn ; and these had seemed to show that both
were of one mind in the warmth of their repudiation
of the family ill-feeling towards him.
He had been kindly met at King's Common, 
what Lady Caroline would have called affectionately
met, indeed ; and although he had
been somewhat startled by the difference between
the sisters in aspect, manner, voice, and
shake of the hand, he had still persisted in liking
where he could not love, and had almost
made Lady Caroline endurable by the force of
his resolution to find her so.

What he had thought of his cousins, both
aunts had often endeavoured to discover.

Once it would be on Julia's part. *' We are
never dull, are we, Portland, with such a
houseful close by '? What should we do without
all those King's Commoners, as I call
them ? We should not be half so merry."
There had just been a tea-party at the Abbey,

and the whole crew, and even Miss Penrose,
had been in famous spirits, and had tumbled
up and down, and in and out, all over the
place, and had finally disappeared amidst
shouting, and laughing, and waving of handkerchiefs.
" I was glad you should have a
chance of talking to the girls for once," the
astute matchmaker had continued. " Miss
Penrose has such a way of placing herself in
front of them, and answering for everybody
all round, that really, unless she is disposed
of, one has no hope of hearing another voice."
That was why you carried her off? "
Certainly," said Lady Julia, laughing.
I am not so particularly partial to Miss
Penrose's company, that I should have runaway
from you all to closet myself with her
otherwise ; and I must own it was tantalising
to hear Rosamund's merry laugh ring out just
as we were leaving the room ; but I knew you
would all enjoy yourselves the better if there
were no old fogies about. Old fogies are apt
to be marplot."

You do not call yourself an old fogy ? "

"Indeed I do. What am I then T' (for
the pleasure of hearing him disclaim).

About as much of one as you are of a
marplot."

Really such compliments ! " cried the good
soul, who had never been so happy in her life.
'' What a courtier you are, Portland ! I do
not wonder at my sister Caroline. You have
made a conquest even of her. As for Rosamund"
 she paused, hoping he would look
or say something unusual,  something to give
her the ghost of a clue to his sentiments in
that quarter.

But this was just what Portland was not
going to do. On every other point he could
be, and had been, frankly communicative, and
it came naturally to him to say the little, kind,
civil things, and to give the little pieces of information
as to what had happened during the
day, and to bestow the '* good-night " kiss of
a young relation which Lady Julia had instituted,
and which seemed to establish the footing

upon which the two were : all of these
trifling pleasantries drew them closer to each
other, and made the harmony between them
more complete ; but no advance had been made
with regard to the matrimonial part of the
plan, and two years had passed when our story
opens, and the two elder ladies were exactly
where they had been when it had first been
broached, as regarded their knowledge of Lord
Portland's feelings or wishes on the subject.

Our readers, however, may be permitted a
gleam of information.

Portland, during the two past years, although
he had not troubled himself very seriously
with the consideration, had recollected
and occasionally meditated upon the opportunity
presented him for ultimately securing
the fortune, of which he had now only the
interest, and that during Lady Julia's lifetime.
He had also kept his eyes open.

Here were seven young damsels, daughters
of one house, any one of whom he was at
liberty to sue, and with any one of whom

would come, slap - bang, the all - important
dowry. Out of a choice of seven, surely one
might be found with whom he could fancy
himself a little bit in love, and who would be
able to get up a little bit of response.

No one of them was amiss to look at. They
were all bound to be well-educated, well-mannered,
and well-principled. He need not be
afraid of lurking quicksands in that guarded
and sheltered household. He must find out
an easy-going one, who was not likely to say
No " ; and when that was done, he would
have broken the back of the venture, and the
rest would follow of itself. As to being in
love, he had had enough of that. Half-a-dozen
years before, when yet in his teens, he
had been violently, blindly, and, as a matter
of course, effervescence infatuated with a
charmer many years his senior. The colonel
of his regiment had warned his father, and
the affair had been stopped with a high hand ;
but the ungrateful subaltern had not seen it
in the liszt he should have done.

VOL. I. F

Instead of blessing, morning, noon, and
night, the two who had saved him from a
lifelong regret  for the woman was worthless
and heartless  he had closed his eyes and
ears ; and whenever he had subsequently
thought about marriage in the abstract (for
no successor had ever, strange to say, taken
her place in his affections), it had been to
consider, with a certain sentimental luxury
of supposed woe, that he had once loved,
and that with him there would never come
a second time.

Accordingly, Lady Julia had found the
ground fallow, as we have said ; and the only
little cloud which by-and-by arose on the
horizon of her heaven of blue, was the suspicion
that, although time was passing, fallow
the ground still remained as regarded any
attachment being formed.

It is true that of the cousins, Eosamund
was, if anything, Portland's favourite, and
this in spite of her being exactly the opposite
of the one for whom, in reviewing his position

at the outset, he had considered he should
look out.

No one, by the wildest stretch of the
imagination, could call the eldest Miss Lis-card
easy-going. Her likings and disliking,
her affinities and aversions, were magnified by
a nature vehement and impetuous into matters
of life and death, when opposed or disagreed
with. She could not let a thing pass, could
not refrain her tongue even when a hundred
warnings betokened the wisdom of silence.
She did not, it is to be feared, even esteem
strict justice as much as she herself supposed,
if only she could have her fling at the backbiter
or the tell-tale.

All of this Portland knew,  knew, perhaps,
better than any one else ; and yet he liked
Rosamond better than Dolly, and better a
thousand times than Catharine.

At first, indeed, he had thought the little,
round-faced, chubby Dorothea, four years
younger than Rosamund, and with a brother
between her and Catharine, would have suited

him admirably ; and her youth had been all
in her favour. Four years more time before
he need trouble his head about the matter
was by no means to be despised ; and Dolly
was a most engaging poppet of the Aunt Julia
type, which aunt she was supposed to resemble
in disposition as well as in appearance. He
had passed over Catharine at once : her blue
eyes, and orderly, flaxen ringlets, and nice,
obliging manners, had had no charm for him
(perhaps owing to an occasional and enlightening
look of scorn on Rosamund's face) ; and
he had faithfully attached himself to Dolly, ina
fraternal fashion, for some time.

But, in spite of himself, Rosamund had
interested him : she had crept into his thoughts
when he was alone ; he had found himself
recalling a gesture or a glance after he had
parted from her, and assuming a certain tone
towards her when the two were alone, which
had dropped off of its own accord upon the
approach of others. This had just begun at
the time our story opens, when, as we have

said, the young lady had attained her eighteenth
year (two years, it will be remembered,
subsequent to the period of Portland's arrival
at the Abbey) ; and Portland had himself
wakened up with a start to the fact that the
time for action, if action where to be taken at
all, had come. It had also dawned upon him
to wonder whether or no Rosamund had her
own suspicions. That she had been informed,
or even hinted to, was not to be thought of for
an instant. He knew his aunts better than to
suppose them capable of indelicacy ; but had
she divined by instinct anything '?

Of course Rosamund had.

At first the discovery had filled her with
unreasoning girlish rage, and her bosom had
swelled with a sense of passionate rebellion
to what, with all the grandiloquism of youth,
she had internally stigmatised as an act of
tyranny.

But Portland's indifference and taste for the
society of her little sister had given the elder
time to think ; and as her vision had cleared.

she had thought she saw the whole thing.
He no more meant to fall in love with her
than she did with him ; and she might spare
her gibes, and sarcasms, and contemptuous
looks, for he did not know what they meant.

Thus she had dropped them, and then Hart-land
had begun to take notice of her.

But by this time Eosamund, disarmed, had
corrected her first impression, and had even
begun to associate her cousin with herself in
her sense of ill-usage. How absurd the whole
idea was ! Portland must be as much provoked
as she if he saw it. She hoped to goodness
he did not see it ; she should never be
able to look him in the face if she once found
that he had an inkling of what was going on.

And Portland is well enough if he is let
alone," she owned to herself; *'' but what I
cannot stand is the fuss made about him, and
the way Aunt Julia and mamma sit down and
cackle over him ; and when he comes into a
room, the business there is to get near him ;
and the attention they pay to every word he

speaks, and quote his opinions afterwards  it
is enough to turn one against the man, and
make one hate him on the spot, that's what it
is, if mamma did but know it. And then it
is always ' your cousin Portland ' here, and
your cousin Portland ' there ; and I must do
this because my * cousin ' wishes it, or not doit
if he does not wish it. My ' cousin ' forsooth
! My third or thirtieth cousin ;  and I
know, of course I know, what is the meaning
of it all. As if we are going to marry each
other just because mamma and Aunt Julia
have agreed upon it ! I could laugh to see
them putting their heads together, and taking
it for granted that we are going to be good
little children, and do as we are bid. Put
handy-pan dy in handy-pandy, and trot away
off to the Abbey, and live happily there ever
after !

"And they look so pleased and important
if we do but say a few words to each other
now and then ; and mamma makes way for
him to pass on to me, and tries to get up some

flimsy excuse which would not take in a 
; and I always find his place next
mine at dinner, when he dines with us ; and I
may do what I like, and laugh, and talk, and
run on as much as ever I choose, when he is
by  every one is so benign, and in such
good-humour. Oh ! I know, I know. It is
very good fan as long as nobody else suspects,
and I mean to enjoy it all I can  up to a certain
point, my lord, up to a certain point.
Thus far thou shalt go, Portland, and no
further. As you are, I like you ; farther than
that, I like you not. No advance, if yoa
please. We shall remain excellent friends
just so long as we keep our present positions,
but one false step will send us as wide apart
as the poles. Oh, my good mother and aunt,
look out, look out !  we shall cheat you both
yet.

CHAPTER VI.

Rosamond AS A CONTRAST.

 Art she had none, yet wanted none,
For Nature did that want supply :
So rich in treasures of her own,
She might our boasted stores defy,"

Dryden.

We have now a bird's-eye view of the general
position of our dramatis personae.

Lord Portland is to marry Rosamund, Aunt
Julia is to dower the bride, the two are to live
at Portland Abbey, and Lady Caroline is thus
to be free to bring out her next daughter.

All this is very nicely arranged, and it only
remains for the wheels to turn, and the
machinery to be set in motion.

As we have seen, however, one spoke was
already there, and there were indications of

another, which did not escape the two pairs of
eyes on the watch.

Lord Portland showed no disposition to
encroach beyond the barrier-line drawn by his
fair cousin in the last chapter : it might even
have seemed to an ill-natured spectator that
he was, if anything, still less disposed to quit
his present foothold than the young lady was
to have him do so. If he were a single degree
more friendly vvith her than usual one day, he
swung back like a pendulum till he was a full
pace behind what he had been the next : if a
momentary notice had been taken of Rosamond,
perhaps unavoidably evoked by circumstances,
she was sure to be annoyingly swamped
in a general survey or observation immediately
thereafter ; and if he had been caught bestowing
so much as a glance of admiration, he
turned away his eyes as if from beholding
vanity.

The poor man was frightened  that was the
truth.

He had no particular turn for matrimony ;

and the remembrance of an unhappy childhood,
rendered so by ill-mated parents, together
with some more recent experiences of
a like nature, had made him shy of taking the
plunge on his own account. Not being in
love, he preferred to defer the evil day.

Things were very pleasant as they were, he
thought : he had all he wished, and far more
than he had ever hoped for, in his new life ;
the Abbey was a home that might have satisfied
any man ; Lady Julia was the kindest,
cheerfulness, pleasantness of old maids to live
with that could have been imagined ; his
shooting - parties were the merriest, and his
cricket-team the strongest, in the county ; he
got on well with his people, his farmers, tenants,
and labourers; he had not the ill-word
of any one, high or low, so far as he knew;
he lived at peace with his neighbours ; and his
parson was his most particular friend. Could
any change be for the better ?

As for Eosamund, he liked Eosamund 
well enough. It was not her but it  the

whole elinor  he shirked and dreaded. If he
had been let alone  if there had been no
delighted looks, and fond inquiries, and thinly
veiled anxiety at the Abbey, no stately unbending
and grim approval at King's Common
he would have got on excellently with the
unmanageable, inflammable wild young thing
who was metaphorically kicking up her heels
all over in the place, in the joy of her newborn
freedom. Portland, who was of a sober
sort, had a lurking sympathy with such choice
spirits, and the two would have been fast
friends, if no more, he told himself, if this
foolish idea of a marriage had never been
started,  but as it was, the idea was like an
iron hand holding him back from any sort of
easy companionship.

Of this he himself was aware, but he was
ignorant that he might have gone a very great
deal further in the same direction, and still
not have outshot the truth.

The truth, then  the real, the actual truth,
and let anxious guardians and match-makers

read, mark, learn, and inwardly digest it,  was
this, that had it been possible for every sort
of recollection of Lady Julia's project to have
been blotted out of Portland's memory ; had
he of himself and by himself found out the
beauties and the blemishes and all the secret
springs of that bewitching and bewildering
effervescence which now, as it were, danced
before his eyes in a Rosamund unapproachable
and unattainable ; had they met alone, unnoticed
and unheeded, and each unprepared
for the other,  his heart had been hers long,
long before he knew.

As it was, the very fact that he was being
watched and approved of and presided over,
had the natural effect ; and it said something
for both Portland and Rosamund that all this
did not render each odious in the other's eyes.

"But we really must come to some sort of
an understanding before long."

Lady Caroline was alone with her sister, of
course, when such a remark could be made.
It was all very well as long as the girls were

in the schoolroom, Julia ; but now that Rosamond
has been out for three months and been
seen everywhere, there is nothing to wait for.
If there is to be anything between her and
Portland, it must be now, or never."

"My dear Caroline, I really  you see there
is no particular hurry."

"Now that is you, Julia, all the world
over. No hurry ! And Catharine only a year
younger, and Dolly close behind her. To
talk of there being no hurry, by which I
presume you mean that the affair may hang
on and on indefinitely, is absurd. Either it
must be now, or not at all."

Lady Julia was silent.

Does Portland mean anything, or does he
not ? "

My dear ." Lady Julia paused.

'' It was not my idea, but yours," pursued
Lady Caroline, who was in a humour to browbeat
any one that day ; " you originated the
whole ; you broached it to Portland ; you undertook
it in your plan for his living with you ;

and join assured me that be was inclined to
agree. If Portland draws back now "

He bas never said a word about drawing;
back," replied Lady Julia, with more spirit
than could have been expected ; " and I must
own that I think you are over-hasty altogether.
Give Portland time."

Oh, time ! I wish you could understand,"
cried Lady Caroline impatiently, and had Julia
known, there was more reason for her impatience
than appeared. " I cannot make you
see with my eyes,  I never could," proceeded
the speaker, stating a fact for which the Abbey
folks had daily cause to bless their good luck ;
but, however, it is of no use talking," she
added, and indeed she had been on the brink
of an indiscretion. " I have my own reasons,

ahem why, you yourself, Julia, have

often pitied poor Beatrice Wakefield, who introduces
a new daughter year by year, till she
has now a perfect train behind her wherever
she goes. Upon my word," exclaimed Lady
Caroline, with an energy that yet showed a

returning self-satisfaction and good-humour 
upon my word, I never think of Beatrice
and her seven daughters behind her, without
a shudder."

Seven, dear ? Only six, I think," corrected
Julia, gently.

Seven," pronounced her sister, in a voice
that might have spoken their doom. " You
forget the schooloirl, Diana "

"Oh, I beg your pardon, I thought you
spoke of the girls who were out "

And in another year Diana will also be
out. And there she will be to be taken
about also, and to be presented, and everything
! "

Oh, we will hope for the best," said Lady
Julia, pleasantly ; ' and I knoAV, for my part,
I cannot but admire the unselfishness and sweet
temper with which Beatrice makes the best of
those poor unattractive girls  dear me ! I hope
I am not uncharitable  I did not-mean ' unattractive
' ; I daresay they are quite attractive
to some people  quiet, gentle, good girls ; but

somehow, when one looks at them beside Rosamond
! "

Yes, beside Rosamond," assented Lady
Caroline, now entirely restored to complacency
by so timely a suggestion  " beside Eosamund
they lose all the colour they possess. I am
not a blindly partial parent, as you know,
Julia ; but I cannot help seeing  no one can
help seeing  that when she is present, all
animation as she usually is, those others seem
absolute dulness itself. And, moreover, it is
not only the Wakefield girls, it is every one.
Now, is it not?"

*' Certainly "  Lady Julia was to the full as
amiably prejudiced  " certainly ; you are right
in that," she said. " Still, one does see very
ordinary girls very well married."

Not where there are six of them," cried
Lady Caroline, almost eagerly ; *' at least, not
when all six are everywhere present. What
is the use of Beatrice's going up to town season
after season, taking an expensive house in an
expensive part, giving balls and parties, and

VOL. I. G

toiling and straining to get her daughters
asked to the best houses in return 1 When
the men come to see them, what do they find ?
Not one but six Miss Waterfields, all pleasing,
and agreeable, and well-mannered, and well-dressed,
and ready to talk, and to smile, and
to play on the piano  good heavens ! the piano
is never silent in that drawing-room  and what
is the consequence ? No man wants to marry
six girls ; and as for singling out any one from
the rest, and expecting to find any single thing
in her that he did not find in all the others, he
might as well try to fix his affections upon a
blade of grass out of a meadow. I do not say
they are not amiable girls, and well-bred "

Sweet, gentle," murmured Lady Julia.

' Unattractive,' Julia."

Did I say ' unattractive ' ? But I only
said they were so to me. To other
people "

Oh, nonsense, my dear ! If yot cannot find
attractions in them, no one can," said Lady
Caroline, with a shade of contempt in her more

kindly tone. " No, no ; there is no need to be
so nice between ourselves. We can see plainly
enough how the land lies. But still, as I was
about to say, when you interrupted me, something
might be done if Beatrice would only
realise the fact that these girls, by crowding so
together, stand in each other's light. If they
could be sent out by twos and twos  for it
would be too much to suppose that they should
do anything singly,  but if they could be
broken up into small detachments, they would
at least obtain some sort of individual notice.
They would not be handicapped by the shadows
of the others in the background. If anyone
did happen to take a fancy to, say, Eleanor,
he would not observe precisely the same
qualities in Violet, Amy  and indeed running
through all the seven. He might  mind, I do
not say he would  but he might imagine that
a dull, stupid, excellent sort of girl, such as one
of the Waterfields, would make a better wife
than a prettier or cleverer one''

Are you not a little severe, Caroline ? " It

was the nearest approach to a remonstrance
Lady Julia ever made.

*' Severe ? Not at all ; " Lady Caroline
promptly quashed the idea. " I have not a
word to say against the Waterfields/' she continued.
'' They are almost the only acquaintance
we have, with whom we can comfortably
associate. We have known them all our lives ;
and, all things considered, I should be sorry to
lose them out of the neighbourhood. Beatrice
is invariably friendly, and anxious we should
go there, and that the young people should
meet ; and I have made no sort of objection to
Eosamund's being frequently at the Grange,
now that she has less to do at home. She is
there at this moment "

But she was nothing of the kind ; she entered
even as the last words were spoken, and
with her the young ladies who had also been
the theme of the above discourse.

Mamma, I have brought over some hungry
people for luncheon," said Eosamund, making
her way to embrace her aunt, while Lady

caroline advanced with lier usual air of formal
civility to greet the new-comers. " I found
them, and I brought them, and they are going
to stop the afternoon if you press them very
hard," she added merrily ; " and Aunt Julia
will just please to do the same, and Portland
is here too,"  and with the name of Portland
the boldness of the proposal was explained.

How do you do, Eleanour  Amy  Violet '?"
said Lady Caroline, kissing steadily through
the trio. " Rosamund was fortunate in finding
you at home, and able to come over this
beautiful day. We must make the most of
all the summer that remains."

Yes. It is wonderfully hot for September,"
observed Miss Wakefield, seating herself. '' Are
we not interrupting you, Lady Caroline ? "

Not at all, my dear ; my morning s work
is over*'

My bringing Portland provided for that,
my lady mother," quoth Miss Rosamund to
her saucy self. " * Waterfields, minus Hart-land,
to the right about, and whistle for your

luncheon would have been the order of the
day if I had not made arrangements, my
dears ; so you need not look so open-eyed at
her ladyship's affability")

' And so you can stop a little and keep
Rosamund company," proceeded the hostess.
'' She is rather left to herself nowadays, not
being one of a nice merry party like you, all
so nearly of an age. You can hardly know
what it is to be dull. You are quite independent
of other society. You must have so
many resources among yourselves."

All the time she was looking at them, and
Lady Julia knew what was in her heart.

There the three sat, so quiet, so composed,
so motionless, so absolutely irreproachable in
dress and faultless in demeanour, so exactly
all that they ought to be in voice, air, and
attitude, yet so hopelessly on a level, so fatally
equal in every excellence, that a row of clipped
poplars could not have been more uniform.

In the midst stood Rosamund, her face half
hidden behind the large hat with which she

fanned her glowing cheeks, her brilliant eyes
roving round the group alight with mischief,
a laugh hidden about the corners of her
mouth. " And her hair all abroad as usual,"
internally commented Lady Caroline,  but
she looked at Julia in triumph.

If Portland would only come in now ! Come
in and see this radiant young creature, and
contrast her with those correct girls, sitting
so properly still and ladylike in their chairs, 
surely some sentiment, some emotion, must
for very shame be kindled in his breast. He
could not be so insensate as not to feel, so dull
as not to see, the difference. She tapped the
floor with her foot, impatiently. Where was
he '? What was he doings ? What hindered
him from entering 1 Somehow, with Julia
sitting by, she did not wish to inquire, preferred
not to seem too curious,  but to be
tongue-tied was a rare experience with her,
and she hardly knew how to put up
with it.

Had Portland come over of himself ? Had

Eosamund been to the Abbey to fetch her
aunt, and, finding her absent, fetched her
cousin instead ? Or, had he been merely
met with by the way ?

Simple things enough to learn ; but, following
as this did hard upon the sisters' conference,
the inquiries stuck in the interrogator's
throat.

She looked at her daughter ; but Rosamund,
securely audacious as was her wont when
Portland was near, was, shocking to relate,
swinging on one leg with an unflinching eye
direct upon herself  an eye, moreover, which
plainly said, " Find out if you can. But there
is nothing to be learned from me"

Now that very morning Eosamund had had
a long' walk alone with Portland, and although
not a word had passed between them which
all the world might not have heard, each had
been fully aware of all that would have been
prophesied and hoped for, had the incident
come to light ; and it had been quite understood
between them, though the understanding

had been a tacit one, that neither was, in
schoolboy phrase, to peach.

They had come across each other by accident
on her first going out, and, nobody being
by to interfere, instead of a mere interchange
of morning greetings, the two had readily
joined company, and he had turned back to
make his way hers. He had had his morning
on his hands, not intending to shoot that day ;
and she had started for the Waterfields', to
whose house she was allowed to walk without
an escort, the way lying entirely through the
Abbey grounds and their own. She had only
to cross the highroad, from one little white
gate to another.

Although no escort was needed, Portland
had nevertheless proffered his company; and
the September sky being bright overhead,
while the dewy air had that keen exhilarating
nip dear to the young and healthy, the
two had stepped gaily forward, and  not
without a sense of the humour of it  had
extended and amplified their walk, until it

had grown to quite respectable dimensions.
With no one else would Miss Liscard have
dared for a moment to rove so far and remain
so long ; and as the little minx knew this perfectly,
and as Portland had more than a suspicion
of the same, each had been vastly amused
in their inward souls, reflecting on the capital
that would have been made of the escapade
by the sagacious elders, had it by any chance
come to their ears.

It had been very good fun to both ; and in
their secret and their unspoken sympathy over
it, the accomplices had been nearer to love-making
than they had ever been before ; butin
the fact that no love-making had been
made, while appearances had been all the
other way, lay the very kernel of the jest.

A spark of seriousness would have spoilt all.

It was this which lent to Rosamund's brow
the archness which puzzled Lady Caroline.

The mischief-loving creature was laughing
iu her sleeve to think what a dance after
Will-o'-the-wisp the poor lady would have

been led, had a hint been dropped of what
had been going on. Dearly would Rosamund
have liked that hint to bestow. Delicious it
would have been to have slipped out casually
some such passing remark as " How fast those
young pheasants of Portland's grow ! We went
round to take a peep at them before going to

the Grange, " or, " Portland will have his

hands full if he cuts down all the trees he is
marking. We marked an immense number
in the hour and a half we were at it just

now, " and to have watched the effect

produced.

The effect of such an observation properly
handled, would have been fine indeed. It
would have caused Lady Caroline hastily to
introduce another topic, and to say the most
agreeable things in the blandest tones in order
to conceal her pleasure ; while the less sophisticated
Julia would have started in her chair,
and openly looked significance, the while considering
she was doing all that discretion could
possibly demand, if she did not with clasped

hands ejaculate " Thank Heaven ! " upon the
spot.

And after all, what had the predestined
lovers done ?

Tramped cheerily along, talking, laughing,
telling each other stories, and every now and
then breaking out into snatches of song, which
had startled the wood-pigeons and the rabbits.

They had taken to the woods, and had
rustled through the red paths among the
dropping beech-leaves, climbed mossy knolls
wet beneath and dripping overhead, slipped
down muddy banks, and skirted deeply rutted
cart-tracks. Often they had had to walk one
behind the other, between sopping grass-fields,
and Portland had gone first, that the
smaller feet which followed might find terra
Firma in his foot-prints ; but he had only
offered his hand when help was really necessary,
and even when she had had to jump some
ditches, and had cleared them bravely, he had
seen her go over with as much philosophy as
if she had been his sister.

They had been silent when they had not
cared to speak, without the silence having
had any kind of oppression about it ; and the
occasional services he had rendered had been
paid without gallantry, and accepted without
coquetry. All had been free, comfortable
unrestraint.

Once he had had to disentangle from her
skirts a trailing branch of bramble.

The branch had clung obstinately, sticking
fast to a new place as soon as loosened from
the old, and he had bidden her stand still,
and had put down his stick, and had anathematised
the pertinacious *' follower" so heartily,
that even she had felt a momentary confusion,
knowing what she knew. She had wondered
at his unconcern, but the next instant their
eyes had met and flashed revelations, and she
had seen him turn aside his head to lauofh,
while she had turned hers to blush. Not a
syllable had been spoken.

It had been the only awkward moment, 
and yet it had been the gem of the walk.

Confound this 'follower I can't get him
off!" had been Portland's very natural exclamation,
as he had torn and twisted, afraid of
doing damage to the thin summer fabric his
cousin was still wearing. " He sticks to
you like a leech ; but stand still for a moment,
Eosamund, and I'll be even with him
yet " and then he had held up the luckless
"follower" as the huntsman holds the
brush, in triumph, and the next moment they
had both laughed in each other s faces.

Many and many a time in years to come
that little scene was to rise before Rosamond's
eyes, yet half a day afterwards she thought
she had forgotten it.

CHAPTER VII.

TWO TONGUES LET LOOSE.

Give not thy tongue too great liberty, lest it take thee a prisoner.
A word unspoken is like the sword in the scabbard, thine ; if vented,
thy sword is in another's hand."  Charles.

All of this, however, and the very fact of the
walk itself, it was felt to be so expedient to
keep in the dark, that, on nearing the Water-fields',
Portland had made his dog the excuse
for going no farther, and had engaged to meet
the return party at a certain landmark.

He was to be depended upon for silence as
regarded an earlier meeting ; and the intimacy
between the families was known to be such,
that, on the approach of the four young ladies,
his " So you have succeeded in your errand,
Rosamund \ " showing; that he had known

what that errand had been, had excited no
surprise, since it had been felt that she might
at any time have told him she was hoping
to take home with her some of her friends from
the Grange, to spend the afternoon.

As it appeared that his presence also was
desired at King's Common, he had joined the
party ; and favoured as she thus was by Fortune
on all sides, surely nothing more was
needed to have brought back sunshine into
the fair face of the youthful diplomatist 1
Nevertheless, there was another and a tenderer
cause ; some one, who is very soon to appear
in these pages, was half expected by two
people in that stately drawing-room within
the hour, and the expectation lay at the root
of half the joyous spirits of the one, and the
querulous impatience and only partially allayed
ill-humour of the other. Lady Caroline
had not allowed herself to confide even
to Julia all that was in her mind that day ;
she had not dared to say why it was so
imperative that Portland should promptly

begin his wooing ; and only Portland's actual
presence  or vicinity, for he had gone round
to the kennels to fasten up his dog  had
calmed her ruffled brow, as she saw the Miss
Waterfields walk in.

In an instant she had divined that they
were there because another guest, and an
unwelcome one, was on the horizon.

Then Rosamund had pronounced her magic
word, and hope had revived : it might have
been for Portland  why should it not have
been for Portland ?  that the party had been
collected.

Portland was come, actually come,  and no
one had even hinted that any one else was
coming. She would put away the idea, and
make the Wakefield girls understand that she
was glad to see them, and bid Julia take off
her shawl, and send word to the servants to
lay extra places for luncheon.

All was done with the best of good-breeding,
and the company, generally, understood that
they were to be tolerated.

VOL. L H

Accordingly, Eleanour Wakefield, who was
a shade less in awe of Lady Caroline than her
sisters, ventured to lead the conversation,
which was apt to lag in that august presence.
I think everybody was out and about today,"
she observed : " we met, first, the rector
and Mrs Allen, then Mary Allen and Rose
Crossley, then a great cart-load of Johnson-wigwams,
and last of all, Mr Bartlett's groom.
I am not sure whether the meeting the groom
was not the most exciting encounter of any,
for he had a very unmanageable horse, and
backed up a side-lane, and then came galloping
past so frantically that we thought the horse
had bolted, and all fled up the bank,  I assure
you it was quite an adventure. Lady Caroline."

Runaway horses are extremely dangerous,"
replied Lady Caroline  but she was not so
sententious as she could have wished. She
could hardly even listen to Eleanour's prattle
at the moment.

This, however, was not for Miss Wakefield
to take note of, and she continued pleasantly.

"It is not often that we are so lively. We
quite congratulated ourselves on having taken
to the road, instead of coming through the
woods. The woods would have been too
wet, Rosamund said ; and really it is not very
much longer coming round by the road. How
long did it take you to walk over to us, Rosamund
*? "

Unlucky question ! It had not occurred to
Rosamund that there might be an investigation
into times and seasons, and the smile died
out of her face. Still she kept a bold front.
I have no idea," she said, and prudently
neither extended nor qualified her statement.

Lady Caroline Liscard was, however, the
last person to have taken note that her daughter
had been absent since breakfast-time, and
had not returned till nearly one, having in the
interim accomplished a walk of three miles,
all told.

Rosamund had started early, in order, if
the truth were told, to be out of her mother's
way : she had not cared about an early return

; and that being so, Portland's proposition
of a longer ramble, and even the still
longer one into which it had thereafter grown,
had been all to the good. It had enabled her
to pass agreeably a considerable portion of
time that had lain with a somewhat weary-aspect
in front of her that morning, and had
also been a frolic in its way, as we have seen,
she was now all agog for what was next
to happen, and devoutly trusted no further
questions would be put. It would certainly
have had a peculiar aspect, to say the least
of it, if it had come to light that she had
been wandering about for a couple of hours
in woods which she had afterwards pronounced
to be too wet for her friends to pass
through ! It might have been suspected that
she had had her own reasons for wishing to
return by the road. The road was the only
place where people were ever met going to
and from the town of Longminster, four
miles off.

It seemed as if every turn of the road
brouo'lit some one into view," continued Eleanor
Wakefield, who was always considered to
know what to say, and how to keep rippling
on in the proper drawing-room strain. " The
Aliens were going by train somewhere, but
return to-night, and Mr Allen says the harvest
festival is to be this day fortnight. I suppose
we shall send the same kinds of fruit and
vegetable as usual. Have you any very large
marrows, Lady Caroline ? "

I am afraid I hardly know, Eleanor"'

Marrows ! And so much on her mind ! She
could have thrown every marrow in the garden
at the speaker s head ; and yet she could not
but commend in her heart the composure
which enabled her young visitor to speak and
act as though receiving the best of attention,
when it was but too palpable that she had
but half one of a distracted hostess's ears, and
the same measure of her vacant eves.

The rest was for Portland's approaching

step. He had made a halt in the ante-room,
and had been seen and heard through the open
doorway.

In he came with a broken dog-chain in his
hand. 'did you ever see such workmanship
? " he cried, after due salutations. " How
could any one suppose such a thing would
hold together ? But I am awfully sorry, Lady
Caroline ; I never dreamed of its giving way ;
and I will send it up to the maker tomorrow,
and tell him to send down another."

Pray do not trouble about it, Portland."

"Oh, I am bound to make it good, you
know."

I have no doubt it is an old one and worn
out," began Lady Caroline, who to any other
delinquent would have looked black as night.
"The coachman can be told to get another,
and a better. Meantime, what have you done
with Lion ? 1 hope he is in good hands."

"The brute ! I sent him home. I believe
it was his fault the chain broke,  he gave
such a spring after me ; but still, a good piece

of metal ought to be able to stood a tug or
two ; " and apparently full of his grievance,
he retired to the window recess and looked
gloomily out.

''I am afraid we are only a party of ladies,
my dear Portland." Lady Caroline turned
her head round, and Lady Julia spun her
whole stout little person about likewise, both
ladies wishing to face the favourite.

*rare you?" said he., unconsciously.

Mr Liscard will be in presently, but
hardly, I fear, to luncheon."

Oh ! '

Did you expect to find me here ? " It was
now Julia's turn. " Did you know where I
was 1 "

*ewe met the carriage returning."

So you came after me ? " jocosely.

"I met Eosamund, and came with her."

The pause that ensued made itself felt by
all but the speaker ; he had something else on
hand. A full-fed, lethargic wasp was slowly
crawling up the window-pane, tempting Providence

in the shape of Portland, whose hand
stole gently towards it. He was a humane
man, but wasps are everybody's game, and
in the hand there was an open penknife.

It moved too quickly, and gave the alarm ;
the wasp buzzed and flew.

Being gorged, however, and out of condition,
a short flight sufficed, and that, being
taken in a circle round the adversary's head,
and close to his ears, had a stimulating effect.
He remained stock-still till the insect had
again settled ; and then, swift as lightning,
stabbed it through the heart  it being presumed
that the heart was in its right place.
All was over in the space of a few seconds,
and the prey impaled on the point of the
knife.

"Well, I call that cruel," said a voice close

by.

'' Oh no. Miss AYater field ; a wasp is a wasp ;
if you don't kill Inn he will  sting, if not kill
you. At least that's the theory." He was
bound to make some defence.

Have you many at the xlbbey '? "
Swarms' replied Portland, picking off the
one he had disposed of. "I say, here is another,
come to see after the hast. Come as
chief mourner,  now, look, and you will see
how I do it. Ho ! Missed him ! And, by
Jove, he's vicious ! Look out ! " and he pulled
the young lady hastily aside,  " he will sting
if he has a chance now ; he is furious, the
villain. Just wait a minute, my boy ; I'll 
settle your account  for you "  intently watching.
'' Quiet now, Miss Wakefield, don't you
stir : there  he has calmed down now ; no, he
is off again, the suspicious rascal ; he smells
the blood of the slain. Now, quietly, quietly.
Plague upon him ! he is twice the trouble the
other was. But I shan't be done  make up
your mind to that, my friend ; so if it lies

between us " and down came the knife,

and the deed was done.

Even Violet Wakefield had been keen on
the quarry. " You are clever," she now
cried, and examined the defunct wasp with

more interest than she could have supposed
possible.

'rit is of no use cutting them in two, you
know," said Portland, and he proceeded to
explain.

AVhat are those two whispering about over
there ? " exclaimed Lady Caroline, who had
twice addressed herself to Lord Portland, and
twice been obliged to end her sentence as
though it had been meant for the general
circle, which is not a pleasant thing to have
to do.

No one now replied.

Rosamund," said her mother, looking
round. Alas ! she wished she had let Hart-land
alone, and kept her wits for another
encounter. It was too late now ; a note she
had foolishly left lying on the table when
interrupted by her first visitor, and which she
most particularly desired not to have had seen,
was in her daughter's hands, and it was but
too evident that Rosamund had neither heard
nor seen anything else since it came there.

' Provoking ! " muttered Lady Caroline to
herself, and her brow once more clouded over.
"If I could only have consulted Portland
first ; but now, it will have to be spoken
about before them all, and of course Eosamund
will get her way." (Aloud.) " What did you
say, my dear ? " for she was being in her turn
addressed.

When did this come, mamma 1 "

*' What 1 What have you got there 1 " and
Lady Caroline put up her eyeglass.

This," said Rosamund, holding up the
note, which it was easier to do than to name
the writer.

"Oh, that from the barracks," said Lady
Caroline, and the glass dropped with a jerk.
I forget when. Some time this morning."

Have you answered it "? "

'* Not yet. Your aunt came in."

What shall you say ? " Rosamund was
growing bolder every day about this time,
and astonished even herself by her presumption
and its success. In the present instance

this was the more remarkable, in that she was
much more moved by inward anxiety about
the fate which she well knew hung in the
balance as regarded the note and its contents,
than appeared. A close observer would have
suspected that she cared, but the closest would
hardly have gathered how much she cared
about the reply to her question.

Oh, I do not know, I am sure, my dear,"
was, however, all the satisfaction Lady Caroline
deigned to bestow. ' It will require consideration.
I wish to ask your cousin what he
thinks. These regimental luncheons are so
very  but still people do go to them, and
this time there is some sort of reason for it.
We are invited to lunch with the officers
at the barracks, Julia, on the day of the
flower-show, at which their band will play.
I suppose they mean it politely, and it is a
printed card, so, I presume, we should meet
everybody there ; but really I have not thought
about it," which was hardly the truth, invitations
being, as before hinted, by no means as

thick as blackberries at King's Common, where
it was known that only the stiffest and grandest
of galas met with any favour from the lady
of the manor, and where, in consequence, no
summons to a little, cosy, informal impromptu
ever found its way. Accordingly, the large
and somewhat florid card, enclosed in a note
from the major in command, would have been
quite to her ladyship's mind, had it not been
for the note itself. That was the fly in her
ointment, and it was that which Eosamund
now held fast.

What does your mother mean to do,
Eleanour "? " pursued Lady Caroline, who saw
at a glance that Julia would be no help, and,
indeed, had not meant to tell her of the
dilemma, had circumstances not obliged her
to do so.

About Major Gilbert's luncheon-party ? "
said Eleanour. ' I think we shall go  some
of us."

'why do you call it 'Major Gilbert's'
party ? " corrected Lady Caroline, quickly.

The card says, ' Major Gilbert and the officers
' of the regiment. I do not suppose that
Major Gilbert has anything more to do with
it than any of the rest. Major Gilbert is the
least presentable of the set, and yet he is the
one who always seems to put himself forward."

Perhaps he may be put forward  a different
thing, Lady Caroline. You see, being in
command at present, he can hardly help taking
the lead," observed Miss Wakefield, good-naturedly.


You must be mistaken, my dear. Majors
do not take command. There must be a
colonel to do that."

There is no colonel at present there."

"There must be a colonel somewhere'' It
almost seemed as if a wrangle were imminent,
each knowing about as much or as little
as the other of military matters ; but Lady
Caroline waived the question. She might be
defeated, and she was not sufficiently sure of
her ground to care to risk it ; besides, she had
something else to say.

"You may be right, Eleanour, in so far that
at present the colonel may be on leave ; but if
that be the case, I must say it surprises me
that his subordinate officer should have so
much time on his hands. It seems to me as
if this Major Gilbert never has anything to
keep him away from amusements ; no duties at
home, no calls on his time, nothing, in short,
to hinder him from idling away whole days
in pleasure."

Young men must have their recreations,"
murmured the kind-hearted Julia ; "I am
sure you cannot wish them to be always at
work, Caroline. It makes me quite wretched
to hear from Portland of the dreadful marches
they had to make in India, and the hours they
had to be drilling in that terrible climate,
and "

I doubt if they do any drilling at all at
Longminster," interrupted her sister. " And
as for marching, the only marches Major
Gilbert ever takes are over here, or to some
other house where he may idle away his time.

and fancy himself in request. I am sure I 
we have shown him plainly enough that there
is no occasion for his coming so often. We
never intended to make this place a barrack
playground ; but he is the sort of person on
whom every kind of hint is thrown away.
One cannot exactly be rude."

No one raised an eye. Lady Caroline was
doing herself injustice ; she not only could be,
but was, the rudest woman in the world when
she chose. Moreover, she was now showing
herself to be also the most unwise, since, however
much it cost her, she should have refrained
from speaking ill of one for whom she
entertained so strong a personal animus, in
the presence of others, by some of whom
at least, this was not shared. Even by
those who did not particularly care for the
Gilbert in question, Lady Caroline, who
had more than once partaken of his hospitality,
accepted his arm, and been glad to
avail herself of his services, was heard with
displeasure.

But liavinor now oot the bit between lier
teeth, there was no stopping her.

There are some people who never know
when to come and when to go' she proceeded.
If I ask Major Gilbert to luncheon, I do not
mean that he is to remain till dinner-time. If
he comes over to call, he means to be invited
to tea, and is sure to suggest a game of some
kind or other afterwards. All this would be
very well, of course, if he were a friend  if he
were on intimate terms with our family ; but
when we all dislike him "

Oh, my dear Caroline  I must really  I
cannot agree to that. We do not dislike him
at the Abbey."

You do not dislike him, Julia ? " Lady
Caroline's tone was rising.

I  no  really, I cannot say I do."

Well, I must say you astonish me, my
dear. It was only last week that you agreed
with me perfectly about this very lajor
Gilbert, and I told you how much I
wished he would let us alone ; and now you

VOL. I. I

change about, and just because others are
here "

My dear ! "

Well, my dear, do, pray, say for once

what you do think. That speaking no evil of
anybody is all very well in theory ; but for my
part, I consider that it leads people into gross
untruths. I know you object to Major Gilbert
every bit as much as I do, deny it how you
may."

*' My dear r' Julia was still unable for
more than a slight increase of emphasis.

You told me yourself you could not call
him a gentleman," pursued Lady Caroline,
hunting her down.

But still "

Oh, if you allow a man is not a gentleman,
you may say what you like for him."

*' He may be a very "

Worthy person," concluded Lady Caroline,
with a sneer. *' So he may ; we will hope he
is. All I know is, that his manners are atrocious
; that there is in them a mixture of ease

and awkwardness which is hardly to be borne ;
and that I have never seen any good qualities
to counterbalance the outward deficiencies.
He looks perfectly miserable on entering a
room ; directly he is treated with bare civility
he grows familiar ; and by the time he leaves
one wonders what he will do next."

Lady Julia looked vexed, but did not speak.

Portland, am I not speaking the truth ?
You, I know, will agree with me ? " resumed
the speaker, who could hardly help perceiving
that no one else did, or that, at all events, nobody
approved of so public a declaration of the
sentiment. " Portland ? " appealed Lady Caroline
; and she turned her chair again towards
him, for it had insensibly slid round, as in the
warmth of the discussion she had declaimed
for the benefit of those on the other side.

** Yes," said Portland.

Do you not agree with what I have been
saying 1 "

He was obliged to own that he did not
know what she had been saying.

This was worse than dissent ; she grew
alarmed. " Do come a little nearer then ; I
cannot shout across the room."

But it is so hot where you are."

Hot ? Why, it is September."

It is hot all the same' said Portland, " and
I can hear you perfectly, Lady Caroline. It
was only because I was not attending to what
you said that I missed knowing what it was."
He had disposed of the question, and was free
to engage in combat with another wasp.

' As obstinate as any of us ! " muttered Lady
Caroline to herself  "a Merest all over!
Even in a trifle like this ! " and she liked him
all the better for it.

If it had been the luckless Gilbert who had
thus dared to brave her ! Bat then Gilbert
had not been born a Verelst ; and moreover.
Lord Portland in himself was precisely the
one man whom Lady Caroline could have fancied,
could have loved, had she been young,
and free, and  thwarted. The last only would
have been needed to have made her idolise

him ; and even now,  even as she was,  wife,
mother, middle-aged woman, and county lady,
she cared that he should notice her, attend
to her, lean over her chair, and tell her, as he
alone presumed to do, that her gown or bonnet
was becoming. She desired that he should
become her son-in-law, but it may be questioned
whether she would have liked seeing
him altogether Eosamund's.

Just now everything seemed against her.
There was Portland laughing like a boy, and
holding  yes, indeed, clutching with both
hands  Violet Wakefield's black velvet hat ;
dashing it too, regardless of consequences, up
and down the window-pane ! And there was
Violet  the almost pretty Violet, the best-looking
of the Waterfalls, at any rate  standing
by his side and looking on with a placid
smile and participating interest ! Something
amusing, not sentimental, was going on, no
doubt ; but even amusing nonsense may be
dangerous when it is not shared by all the
party. Why was not Rosamund in the jest ?

Rosamund had neither spoken nor moved fora
long time.

At Portland's plain-spoken rejoinder she
did, however, rouse herself. '' Can you not
see how much of his attention Portland is bestowing
on you, mamma ? " she said bitterly ;
'' but, of course, you take it for granted that
he shares your sentiments, and tomorrow we
shall all be told whose they are, and what is
Portland's opinion. My cousin is very good
to be so respectfully silent when you speak ;
but he might remember that he is taking away
the character of a man "

He ? Portland I "

You are, and as Portland does not stop
you, it is to be supposed he agrees."

/ take away any one's character ! " said
Lady Caroline, colouring up.

"And say the most cruel, false things "

False ! "

You speak of Major Gilbert as if he were
some low man."

So he may be."

You know that he is not."

'* I do not, indeed. I know nothing about
him."

'' You know that he is the major of his
regiment."

Exactly, and that is all''

"You have set yourself against him ever
since he came into the neighbourhood."

Certainly I have disliked him from the
first."

"Why? For what 1 You have had no
reason. He has never given you any. Neither
he nor any of his brother officers have ever
shown us anything but kindness "

'' Kindness ! Absurd ! "

Civility you would call it, I suppose.
And what civility have we ever shown them
in return ? "

"They come over often " began Lady

Caroline.

"Come over! Yes, 'come over.' That is
just what they do. They ask us to the best
they have to give, and we go to it : we goto

their ball and anything else, and make use
of them in any way we can ; but we only
let them come here to a wretched garden-party
"

*' Oh, now, Eosamund," protested her aunt,
who felt she could take part with Caroline
now ; " now, my dear, you really are in the
wrong. Portland has them to dine and shoot
constantly, and "

"Yes, you, Aunt Julia; and Portland, I
suppose," conceded Rosamund ; " but I am
speaking of ourselves. We have never done
anything for anybody  we never do."

What have you then in this special instance
to complain of ? " said Lady Caroline,
quailing a little, as she had begun to do of
late when Rosamund's blood was up. " If
we have not kept open house for the neighbourhood,
as it appears you think we ought
to have done, what have Major Gilbert and
his brother officers more than others against

usr'

But Rosamund was now past logic.

I say it is a shame  a wicked, wicked
shame," she cried, " the moment people's
backs are turned, to scorn them and run them
down, and make out that we are better than
they, and that they are not fit company for us.
I say it is not fair to meet, and talk, and
smile, and shake hands, and pretend that allis
pleasant and nice, and the moment they
are out of sight, fall upon them, and stir
each other up to say the unkindness, untrue
things "

Of whom are you speaking, Rosamond

? ''

Of you, mamma." In Rosamond's burning
fiery eyes there was no sign of flinching.
Of you, and Aunt Julia, and Portland," she
went on. "Do you think I care if you are
angry ? I don't. / am angry ; / am ashamed.
If no one else feels how horribly, how heartlessly,
how shamefully we have all been behaving
towards these  these  poor  friends
of ours, / do. They have only been among
us a short time, and they are very soon going

away, and I do not suppose we shall ever see
any of them again. They are nothing to me.
It is not that I care  that I mind  that I 
why do you look at me like that ? It is only
that I hate injustice, and meanness, and hypocrisy,
and especially towards those who have

been so  been so kind to us, " and all at

once, to the unutterable consternation of the
whole circle, the passionate lips parted in a
loud sob, and the sentence remained unfinished.
If a bomb-shell had exploded in their midst,
it could not have been more appalling to all
present.

CHAPTER Viii.

IT WAS HIS BOAST THAT HE WAS
A ladies' max.

What reason can there be assigned

For this perverseness of the mind ?

Brutes find out where their talents lie ;

A bear will not attempt to fly ;

A foundered horse will not debate

Before he tries a five-barred gate ;

A dog by instinct turns aside

Who sees the ditch too deep and wide : 

But man we find the only creature

Who, led by folly, combats Nature ;

Who, when she loudly cries ' Forbear,

With obstinacy fixes there ;

And where his genius least inclines,

Absurdly bends his whole designs."

Swift.

Some sort of explanation of the foregoing-scene
must now be offered the reader.

The Major Gilbert who had been for the
nonce the apple of discord had, as may have
been gathered, only recently come to the

neighbourhood, and taken the command at
the garrison stationed in. the old - fashioned
county town of Longminster. He was a
man of five-and-thirty, with a fine tall figure,
a handsome set of features, a square, determined
brow, closely clipped hair, and a fierce
moustache. Further, he was an excellent
soldier, respectable in his private life, and
though not drawing too tight a bow, considered
a good man for youngsters to be under
one who would keep a brisk look-out as to
what went on, and not stand nonsense. As,
however, the major was neither unsympathetic
nor injudicious, he was popular enough
indeed rather a favourite than otherwise in
the mess-room ; while once outside barracks,
there was generally felt to be no better comrade
going.

Among women, of the class he belonged to,
he was equally lucky ; the sort of girls whom
he was wont to meet, the friends of his sisters
and his cousins at home, the not over-refined
denizens of garrison towns abroad, found him

quite to their taste ; and it was indeed the
boast of Lis secret soul that he was a ladies'
man.

But he had never known really good society.
He came of wealthy folks, but neither parent
had risen, nor had cared to rise, above a somewhat
humble origin ; and he himself was the
show member of the family. By his own
people he was considered smart, and knowing,
and decidedly genteel. When he visited from
time to time the paternal dwelling, sat down
at the paternal board, and slept beneath the
paternal roof, everything had to be at its best.
Poor old Mr Gilbert would be forced willy-nilly
to put on a better coat for dinner, and to see
if he could not find a chair fit to sit in in the
large un-used drawing-room afterwards. The
meals would be better, more plentiful ; the
extra silver would be put out, and the girls
themselves would remind the housemaid that
their brother liked to have hot water brought
to his room three or four times a-day. Still,
as Frederick was an amiably disposed sybarite,

no one felt this piece of luxury to be exacting
on his part ; rather it may be questioned
whether he would not have gone down a peg
in the general esteem had he not, in his own
phrase, made the household pull itself together.

On cold nights he wanted a fire in his bedroom
; on the light mornings in summer he
must have his windows darkened with double
blinds ; and all the year round he had his
great round bath filled to the brim, and put
out in the midst of a circle of bath-blankets,
towels, rubbing-brushes, and what not, on a
certain spot in his room on the evening of his
arrival. Before he went to bed at night, if
everything about that bath were not in readiness
for the morning's plunge, it mattered not
how late it were, peal would go the major's
bell.

By his two sisters, Emily and Henrietta, or
Em and Etta, as he was wont to style them,
Frederick was much beloved. He represented
in their eyes all that was gayest and pleas-attest
in their lives. He petted them, and

made them presents. He was applied to, to
procure them indulgences and exemptions.
Their parents having married late in life, had
grown too old to care for jaunts and merrymaking
before these younger ones of the
family had grown up ; and having from a
series of domestic bereavements got finally
into the habit of going nowhere, would not,
save for Frederick's intervention, have seen
the necessity for any one else's going anywhere
either. Frederick stood between this
doom and his little sisters, of whom he was
fond after a Grand Mogul fashion, and whose
devotion to him and belief in him were all
that the earnest heart could have required.
He was many years their senior, the three
being all that were left of a fairly numerous
family; but it was their glory that, instead of
holding aloof from their society, as some
brothers would have done, Frederick liked
nothing better than to have one hanging on
each arm, or seated on either side, and, with his
cigar in his mouth, to narrate, discourse, and

ring the changes on every sort of experience,
of which the principally recurring features
would be, 'I did, I said, I thought." This
much must, however, be said for him : as his
own trumpeter, he was indubitably without
a rival ; but he had, on the other hand, fits
of humility and self depreciation which almost
puzzled his auditors.

They thought he must be mistaken when
now and again he was fain to own having
made a blunder or received a rebuff"; or when
he would, as he did, occasionally say straight
out, " I am not up to that," or, '' I have no
notion what ought to be done in such a
case."

Em would raise her eyes to read in his if he
were serious in making such an admission, and
Etta would almost be angry with him for it ;
but although he would be gratified by their
blind fidelity, he would stick to his point.
No, he was not infallible ; he knew a thing
or two, but not everything ; there were people
who had seen lots more of the world and of

life than he had. There yere places in which
he was not quite at home, and occasions which,
in plain terms, bothered him. However  and
then the good little sisters were given to understand
that, in spite of all, he was still a
long way superior to them, and well ahead of
any one they knew ; and that in coming home
among his own people, and putting up withall
their oddities and ignorances, he was condescending
and forbearing.

He needed not to have insinuated it. No
supposition to the contrary had ever arisen in
the minds of the pair; and on reaching the
recognised age of young-ladyhood, the height
of the ambition either possessed was to obtain
his approval and merit still more of his
confidence.

Happily for the two, an audience was as
necessary to Gilbert as a hero to them  so
there was no fear of a cessation of the long
talks in the greenhouse, or the garden. One
of these had, just at the time we have now
arrived at, elicited a tremendous secret. The

VOL. I. K

absentee had run home on business, and what
should the business turn out to be ?

After guessing three times, according to
precedent, the last guess had hit the mark
as nearly as possible. No, he would not 
was going to be married ; but he had come
home in order to ask the governor what he
would do for him in the event of his desiring
to take to himself a wife.

The governor, on learning who the wife in
question was, had professed himself satisfied,
and had agreed to do the thing handsomely.
All had been so much to his mind that he had
thought he must let Em and Etta into the
secret, before he went back to propose.

The two clapped their hands over the delightful
news. He was in love at last ? And
really? Not just  he knew what. Oh, he
knew well enough what they meant. He had
always laughed so before, when they had asked
him if anything were to come of this and that
flirtation, and had said that the one he had
flirted with was all very well for a time, but

that he could not stand too much of her  or
something of the kind. But then he had never
come home before, and asked papa, and spoken
about money, and  oh, they could hardly believe
it, it was such fun !

Frederick pulled his long moustache with
complacency. He loved to be the object of
such a commotion. If they would only
be quiet, he promised to tell them everything;.


Be quiet, do, then, Em," cried Etta, who
was by far the more excited of the two.
We shall never hear anything if we don't
let Frederick speak. Now, Frederick, do
speak  do go on  do tell us all about her 
and about it  and how it began  and where
you met  and what you felt at the first.
Now, do begin at the very beginning "

If I am ever to begin at all 1 Lord I what

o

a tongue you have, Etta ! ''

And then she tells me to be quiet," quoth
the aggrieved Emily.

Never mind that. Let Frederick speak.

How old is she, Frederick ? And what is she
like ? And is she pretty ? "

Go on  go on."

Only one thing more. Is she dark, or
fair '? And is she like either of us 'i "

He looked at her, and then at his other
sister, and another countenance rose before
his eyes. He shook his head.

*' Oh, of course, you will say she is ever so
much nicer," cried Etta, gaily. " And so I
daresay she is, if we could only hear about
her. But you are so mysterious "

At last they had it all. He was in love,
really, and truly, and marrying in love this
time. He had never been so before in his life,
but he was done for at last. As for his little
girl, she was very young, younger than either
of them

But we are only twenty and twenty-one,"
protested Etta.

All the same she was younger ; she was
only eighteen

And you are five-and-thirty 1 "

But this was not a lucky remark, and she
was somewhat sharply informed that a man
may be as much older than his bride as he
chooses ; and moreover, that it was an error on
the right side ; and furthermore, that women
aged sooner than men,  with more of the kind.

Etta listened with impatience. Of course,
of course ; she did not care twopence about
the age, for her part ; she wanted to hear
about the girl about Rosamond : what a
pretty name it was, and so uncommon ! and
was Eosamund herself pretty also ?

Very pretty indeed. More than pretty,
beautiful. The sort of face  and here the
speaker paused ; even he hardly liked to say
to his sisters, " The sort of face you never see,
and hardly know enough to admire if you did''
He had dimly felt that he himself was but just
able to appreciate the difference between the
proud lip and noble brow of Rosamond Lis-card,
and the ordinary red and white prettiness
of the damsels he was in the habit of
taking for his standard.

Pretty, and young," quoth Emily, summing
up ; " well, Frederick, what else ? Is she
well dressed and stylish-looking ? "

Frederick put out his chin. '' My dear
girl ! Stylish-looking I She is an earl's
Granddaughter ! "

Oh  h ! " The joint exclamation and the
expressions of the two awestricken listeners
were a sight to see. That they had dared to
ask if an earl's granddaughter were stylish-looking
!

I don't know if you would call her well
dressed," proceeded their brother, trying not
to seem too much aware of the crushing impression
he had produced. ' She looks tip-top
in whatever she puts on. It's generally white
of an evening, I think. It's not the thing for
girls to dress very much, you know."

"No," assented Etta, humbly ; ''I  I suppose,
then, that"  (for the life of her she
could not call the earl's granddaughter " Rosamund")
 ''I suppose that she  she does not
dress much \ "

Well, all the better," cried Emily, recovering
; " and I don't suppose she can be very
hiorh and mio;litv, and give herself airs, if she
means to marry one of us  at least,"  and
she paused, for it occurred to her that Frederick,
being so very fine and spruce, and such
a orreat man alton-ether, might have unconsciously
given an erroneous idea of the family
to the 'earl's granddaughter," in which case
there was no saying what Rosamund might
turn out to be.

Frederick, however, was reassuring. '' No,
she doesn't give herself airs," he said, with a
slight stress upon the "she"  "and I should
think you would all get on capitally together.
But if you take my advice, you'll steer clear
of some one else, who tries to boss the whole
party  and that's the mother. She's the most
infernally proud woman, that Lady Caroline."

Lady Caroline ! " almost whispered Emily.
She had never known a " Lady " Anybody in
her life.

*' Is she  is she ? " suo-rested Henrietta,

and paused, scarcely knowing in what direction
to inquire.

Oh, shes a monkey-puzzler if you like,"
replied her brother, readily. '' There is not an
inch of her you can approach without a prick.
She is a caution, and no mistake. I can tell
you sometimes when I go up those stone stairs,
and follow the men across the hall, and hear
them bellow out "Major Gilbert" in front of
me into that huge drawing-room where she
sits, always at the far end, always making a
fellow have to walk the whole length before
he gets up to her, I would almost sooner face
a Bengal tigress, alone and unarmed. Look,
this is how she does it," and he put them off
him, for they were leaning on either shoulder,
that he might rise and show the scene properly.
"You come in from over there, Emily, and I
am Lady Caroline here,  see, this is her davenport,
 I believe she lives at that davenport, I
never enter the room but she is sitting in front
of it, writing ; and her long blue back, for she
has the ugliest blue gown you ever saw, and is

never out of it  lier honos back bending forward,
seems as if it would take an hour to
straighten. But isn't it like a poker when
she does get up ! Now, Em,  look, this is
her exactly,"  and poor Lady Caroline was
travestied to admiration, at the very moment,
as luck would have it, when her ladyship was,
with equal acrimony, though with a less appreciative
audience, dilating upon the major
himself.

Whether their respective ears tingled, history
sayeth not, but Gilbert had undoubtedly
the best of it in point of sport. Shouts of
laughter greeted his performance, and he had
to 00 through it aoain and ao-ain ere he was
allowed even to improve and dilate.

She has taken an especial dislike to your
humble servant," he owned candidly. " I am
sure I don't know what I have done to get into
her black books, but there is no mistaking
the fact that I am there. It may be that she
imagines me to be some poor devil without a
sixpence,  and that would not suit her book for

the fair Rosamund. As soon as she finds that
I can make a rattling good settlement  and
the governor is a regular trump to come down
so handsomely, I can tell you, girls  I expect
old Blue-gown will be glad enough to have
me ; for they have a large family to provide
for, and a lot of them are boys. Perhaps I
may be allowed to shake her whole hand for
once. So far, she has only vouchsafed me a
couple of fingers perfectly cold with condescension
; and when she takes my arm, Lord !
I'd as soon have a daddy-long-legs tickle it ! "

The sisters laughed heartily.

It's not that I mind," proceeded Gilbert,
in great good-humour ; " I don't care two skips
of a grasshopper for all her eighty-eight airs,
though I do think it is despicable to snub a
fellow just because he is supposed to be poor ;
but it's vexatious, because it prevents my having
a good time of it with Rosamund ; and to
tell the truth, though I am on the brink of my
offer, I have not had half the opportunities I
ought to have had for  well, you know what."

Of course," said Emily, sagaciously. " You
want to find out whether she cares for you,
and carry on, and all that. You are such a
flirt too, Frederick, I should have thought you
would have made your opportunities."

Well, yes, so I have  in a way. But you
see, Rosamond is not a flirting girl. You have
to mind your P's and Q's a little with these
kind of people ; and though I think, indeed I
know, she likes me "

'' Likes you ! I thought you said she would
accept you to-morrow ! "

'' Well  hum  accept  did I say that ? I
said I meant to try, and my belief is that I
shan't try in vain. But you must understand,
my dear girls, that you have to be uncommonly
careful with girls like Eosamund. They
are taught never to show what they feel."

'' Are they 1 Dreadful ! "

"And though she is the nicest, merriest,
liveliest little creature in the world, she is not
one you get to know all in a moment. I
have had to draw my toes in more than once

when I thought we were fast friends ; but if
any one else treats me badly, you should see
how prettily she tries to make amends. It is
that more than anything which shows me she
really does care. The other day  let me see
what was it that was said ? Oh, I know.
Lady Caroline was talking away to her particular
friend Mrs Waterfields  the Waterfields
ain't bad ; but there's a little hair on their legs ;
they are not up to the Liscards. Well, says
my lady with her venomous smile, ' Oh, my
de-a/i Mrs Wakefield'  that's the way she
speaks  ' my de-a/i Mrs Wakefield,'  no, I
believe it was *my de-aA Beatrice,' for they
are by way of being very thick. ' My de-aA
Beatrice, I am so delighted to hear that weare
to have your nephew's regiment quartered
here directly. It is good news. They tell
me the order is given, and that there will bea
change directly.' Not so fast, my lady,
thinks I ; the order may be given, and the
regiment may go, but I have not heard of it, 
and anyway, you don't get rid of me so easily.

Well, you know, when she said it, even the
Waterfields, who keep in with her at all
hazards, looked disgusted ; and as for Rosamond,
all I know is, I wished Lady Caroline
would say something nasty every day of my
life. You should have seen how my girl
coloured up, and what a blaze her eyes were
in!"

'rand yet you don't feel sure about
her ? "

But it was evident he was as sure as he
cared to be. He had the sense not to desire
more absolute certainty, and the pluck to be
willing to run the risk.

There's Portland, of course," he said.
He's the game Lady Caroline flies aty as anyone
can see. He is the earl, the head of the
family, a lucky young beggar who came in
for the title through a series of deaths. But
he is not thinking of marrying ; and when he
does, he will go in for an heiress  he must
marry money, for he has only what the
spinster sister, Lady Julia, allows him ; and

people say she can't make him her heir, even
if she wished."

I wonder what Agnes Chandler will say,"
observed Emily, who had been ruminating on
matters more within her range.

Oh, Agnes Chandler I Agnes Chandler
was all very well, but they were a scrubby
lot. A fellow has to think of his family. I
liked Agnes uncommonly, and we were tremendous
friends,  and, by Jove, what a
dancer she was, and what spins we used to
have on that old floor ! But you must look
for something a cut above Agnes when you
talk of a wife. Poor Agnes ! she was very
fond of me too."

'rand so was poor Amelia," nodded Etta.

"Well, Amelia; no  no  I drew the line
there. I never really went in for Amelia.
She would fancy I did ; and of course, if that
is the case, you cannot be unkind ; and I had
to accept her presents, and she expected some
sort of attentions in return ; and somehow old
Smith had a rare good cellar, and you met

every one there, and there was no getting out
of it: there was no eluding the Smiths. The
route came just in time ; I daresay she has
had a dozen since we left."

*' And if you had not found your Rosamond,
you would have had a dozen also."

"Very possibly. That shows what one gets
by waiting. Now there are Wilson and Davis
of ours, they are such noodles ; directly we
arrive in quarters, they prospect around, and
fix upon the first passable girl they come
across, and there they are at once, booked.
They can't cry ofi", even if they want to afterwards
; because when the better girls appear
on the scene, they feel so confoundedly foolish.
But Webster and I, we are the wily
ones. We lie low for a week or so, and look
about us. Then we ore invited to the o;ood
houses, and are free to make our choice. I
have never had a flirtation with any but a
nice girl yet."

"Which is saying a good deal, Master
Fred."

All owing to discrimination, my little
dears. All owing to your sapient brother's
keeping a cool head on his shoulders, and putting
a proper value on his proper person. And
he is a bit of a favourite too, I can tell you ;
oh, I know how to creep up the sleeve with
the fair sex, trust me. I sing 'em a song ; I
tickle their fancies with *You'll remember
me,' and that sort of thing. That's the way
of it. Get to sentiment, and they're done
for."

'' Has Eosamund heard you sing '? "
Only once. And never once in her own
house. Old Blue-gown knows better than to
ask me. I had my music in my coat-pocket
the last day I was over there, and Webster
was over with me, and it turned out beastly
wet, so I thought I had a rare chance, as
they set Webster down to play the organ, 
he plays it uncommonly well, the little chap
does,  so I thought here was an opening;
and after a bit, I gave 'em a hint ; I suggested,
couldn't we have a glee, or a catch.

or something ? My word ! you don't see me
doing that again. She would hardly deign
me an answer at all : and the oro;an and
everything else was stopped right away, and
wet or fine, Webster and I had to tramp it.
No ; to tell you the real truth, girls, it gives
me a regular shiver down to the heels of my
boots, whenever I do but think of that Lady
Caroline."

VOL. I.

CHAPTER IX.

THE FIRST MEETING.

Yes, I'm in love, I feel it now.
And Celia has undone me ;
And yet I swear I can't tell how
The pleasing pain stole on me."

Whitehead.

In consonance with the tactics which he had
been so good as to expound for his sisters'
benefit in the last chapter, Major Gilbert had
kept somewhat aloof from the society of the
town, directly he had found he might obtain
that of the county, on taking command at
Longminster.

His position had entitled him to the civilities
of the neighbouring magnates, and he had
fully realised that his last promotion had
opened doors for him hitherto closed  or partially

so, and had not been slow to avail himself
of his new opportunities.

He had met Rosamond, and had been convinced
anew of the soundness of his policy.

No Ao-nes nor Amelia was there now to
hold him back ; no unfortunate trammels
bound him.

Let us take a retrospective glance at the
first meeting.

Mrs Wakefield had invited Major Gilbert
over to the Grange on a lovely June day, and
had also bidden other guests, and intended to
have an out-of-door afternoon party. But
when the Thursday came, the weather was so
inauspicious that only Gilbert himself appeared,
on the chance of its clearing, and
by-and-by Eosamund Liscard drove her pony-cart
over to present Lady Caroline's excuses.
Eosamund was made to stay,  the Grange
being, as we have already said, the only
other house beside the Abbey for which
she had this permission, and Lady Caroline
little dreaming that a blow could be dealt

to her through such an apparently innocent
medium.

Eosamund thought Major Gilbert a fine-looking
man, and an agreeable addition to
the party. She was attached to the Miss
Waterfields, and was fain not to find them
poor company,  well knowing that if they
had been a shade more hilarious or vivacious,
they would have been withheld from her
grasp, as other tempting morsels had been.
She had yearned after this one and that,
congenial damsels with whom she would fain
have held sweet converse, not finding a responsive
spirit in her next sister, the prim Catherine
; but Lady Caroline had put a prompt
veto upon every new intimacy, permitting
only the old and well - worn Waterfields, 
and with them accordingly her daughters
had to be content. But it must not therefore
be inferred that, left to herself, Rosamond
did not secretly cherish much the same
opinion of the septem that her mother did.

They were wholesome  like rice-pudding.

You could take a little of them day after day
without their palling too flagrantly on the
palate,  at the same time, you could never
take very much at a time. They were, in
short, good wear-and-tear neighbours, to be
depended on for sturdy principles and old-established
prejudices, and certain not to develop
any new or startling vagaries.

But imagine what a godsend was Gilbert
in such a house !

Thus met, dien he was naturally on his
best behaviour, he now merely appeared to
be a frank, soldierly man, handsome, well
dressed, and very ready to be pleased with
everything. In their terror at seeing the
unknown visitor turn up on a hopelessly wet
afternoon, and their relief at finding him not
only willing to be entertained but eager to
entertain in return, he had been first the
object of solicitude, and then of grateful surprise
and admiration. One after another had
been drawn into the circle round him, and
Eosamund coming in, found quite a lively

party in the drawing-room, Avliicli, but for
resolute cheerfulness, must have looked as
forlorn as a summer room, whose fireplace is
blocked up by flowers, usually does when the
rain-pools cover the lawn, and the skies are
still pouring forth in floods at intervals.

No one, however, looked depressed on this
occasion, and it was easy to see that to the
one man of the party all the life and vivacity
of it was due.

Gilbert was in his element. Nothing suited
him better than such a position ; and he had
already said many pretty things of the neighbourhood,
and given every sort of intimation
of his good-humour, when Rosamond  Rosamond
looking her loveliest, with moist, clear
eyes, and a damask - rose bloom upon her
cheek, fresh from the outer air  brought a
new atmosphere into the circle. In an instant
all was changed for Gilbert, and he had fallen,
metaphorically, at her feet ; but he did not
allow himself to show that it was so.

He stood up, of course, and when his turn

came made this bow, and was a little more
officious than he need have been in wheeling
forward another chair ; but still he remembered
to beg Eleanour's pardon for so nearly
brushing her with his elbow, and stooped topick
up Mrs Water field's ball of grey worsted,
which was rolling away under the ottoman.
He remembered that he had a " gallery," that he
was under inspection, and that he had heard
the Grange spoken of as an excellent steppingstone
towards admission in the neighbourhood.
Accordingly he did not, as he longed to doat
once turn his back upon the seven Miss
Waterfields (for Diana was also present, it
being a half-holiday) ; he did not let it be
apparent that all interest in their pale faint-coloured
faces had left him at the first vision
of the brilliant new-comer ; he only stood
aside, pulling his long moustache, and marking
the contrast with keen, observant eyes,
until it was again time for him to speak ; and
he did not rush to take possession of the
vacant seat by Rosamund's side presently,

but stepped backwards and forwards, handing
tea, sugar, and cakes, till all were supplied, 
even then, volunteering to pour fresh water
into the teapot, albeit the coveted chair still
remained empty. Such self - restraint said
something for the bold soldier, and he owed
himself some measure of reward for it.

But he was cautious even in taking the
reward * a renewal of talk and jest led to
anecdotes and sleight-offhand tricks, of which
he was a master ; and these last were performed
with such an effort at impartiality as
led to Rosamund's being only addressed twice
as often as was her turn, and shown the secret
of the best performance, to the exclusion of all
the rest, though Diana had already more than
half found it out.

For the further gratification of a musical
community, as evidenced by the books piled
up in the corner, Gilbert next proposed
music ; and on this occasion nobody snuffed
out the proposition, as was subsequently the
case at King's Common. On the contrary,

the idea was caught at in a house where, as
Lady Caroline said, the piano never ceased,
and where an additional voice, and that a bass
one, was a delightful acquisition.

All seven sisters eagerly gathered round the
music-stool, all turning over different things,
in vain endeavours to make their knowledge
agree ; and Eosamund, who had but an indifferent
ear, and had never been at the pains to
improve it, now regretted for the first time
the success of many stratagems for shortening
the hour of practice, which, under Miss Penrose,
had been the daily torment of her life.

Since her escape from schoolroom rule, she
had never touched a note, and, left to herself,
would seldom have cared to hear one. But then,
the music in request at King's Common was not
inspiring, and there was in reality no chance
for any one not of strictly classical proclivities,
knowing how much or how little he or she was
capable of appreciating simpler melody.

Was my heroine now to be left out in the
cold, in consequence ?

Nothing of the kind. She could not sing
ah ! but she could be sung to.

And so it came to pass that whatever and
whenever Major Gilbert sang, it was to her
he turned for commands, for sympathy, and
for applause. She might shift her place, but
if she did, he also shifted his. She might get
behind one, or another ; in a few minutes he
had so placed himself that she was again
within range. She might move forward, take
the arm of a sister, talk in her ear, be interested,
engrossed,  it was all the same ; she
knew that he paused expectantly till she had
done, and that she would either be addressed
anew over the heads of the others, or find him
at her elbow, in another minute.

He might read the words of a part-song
over Amy's shoulder, or share the book with
Violet, but Eosamund felt, by that intuition
which never fails, that she and she alone was
his real audience.

Then he had sung by himself.

His voice was deep and rich, not particularly

expressive, but easy, and, after a certain
fashion, agreeable to listen to. He could
warble a love-ditty with effect, dropping his
voice till it was almost tender at the pathetic
passages ; while in a rattling sea-song he
could bang about the accompaniment famously,
and puff out his chest like a topsail in a gale
of wind.

He did not stick fast to the music-stool,
moreover. He turned about upon it once or
twice, it is true, and struck a chord here
and there, and inquired if they knew this
thing and that ; but after a very reasonable
time he insisted, with creditable pertinacity,
upon some one else's taking his place,
and listened respectfully to his successor
throughout the full length of six pages.

Altogether the whole thing was well done.
Had she had a son at home, Mrs Wakefield
would have asked him to stop and dine. She
did not even find him noisy on this occasion ;
and happily for him, he was held so completely
in check by a variety of feelings

throughout the visit, that he did not once
relapse into vulgar jocularity or familiar
facetiousness.

"He was really most obliging and entertaining."
It was the lady of the house who
spoke, but she expressed the sentiments of
all. "He could not have been more good-natured
; and it must have been a disappointment
when the day turned out so
miserably bad. I wish we had not had to let
him go back in the rain, but I could not well
help it. Another time, when some of the boys
are at home, or when we have some other
gentlemen with us, we must have him again.
I must hear that charming sailor's song once
more," for it had been a blessed change from
the eternal sonatas and themes of which even
her maternal ear was occasionally sick.

Perhaps he may have something of a
barrack-room manner," proceeded Mrs Water-field,
not knowing that to the barrack-room
was due the only thin gloss of good-breeding
Gilbert was capable of taking on. " He may

laugh a little too loud, and talk a little too
loud, and be a little too easy " (how could she
guess that the bold soldier was even at the
moment pondering how it was that he had
not managed to get on faster in his intimacy,
and. inclined to feel he might have pushed
ahead a little more with herself ?), '' but I am
sure he meant no harm," continued the
speaker ; " and I can quite fancy that to
a man away from his home, the sight of a
family party like ours must have been tantalising.
He seemed quite one of ourselves
before he left."

'' And he talked so nicely about his sisters,"
added Eleanour.

Everybody had something good to say of
him ; and though Rosamond said less than the
rest, it was only because she thought the more.

She felt proud, gratified, demure. She, too,
had liked the deep sea-song, and had not
objected to the tremble in the love-sick
warble. She now experienced a sensation
hitherto unknown when hearing Gilbert's

name in every mouth ; and there was all the
charm of novelty in secretly hugging to
herself the conviction that while he was the
hero of the hour, and all were eager to recall
what he had said and done, she, and she
alone, had been the object of his attention.

Could any one's vanity have been insensible
to such a whisper ?  More especially the
vanity of eighteen, and eighteen hitherto kept
within the closest watch and ward ? A sudden
and dangerous exhilaration made Eosamund's
blood dance in her veins as she recounted the
history of the afternoon, in so far as it could
be recounted, to her mother. When Lady
Caroline, on the Waterfields' authority, thereupon
admitted the new-comer to her solemn
reunions, the daughter of the house was in a
flutter of expectation, and met him with shy
but evident pleasure. In the interval between
their first and second meeting he had been
continually in her thoughts, and she had
been even more so in his ; so that when he
made his appearance at King's Common, and

that before the Wakefield party had arrived,
it seemed to the only person present who had
met him before that she was his friend, and
he under her care ; moreover, that it was only
natural he should take possession of her on
the instant, as he lost no time in doing.

For he had no notion of being backward
any more, after he had once been invited to
King's Common. That, he took to mean,
that he had won his point, and made all the
running required.

The alacrity with which he drew near to
Rosamund's side, and his tenacious hold of
that position subsequently, fairly took Lady
Caroline's breath away. " He actually rushed
at her," she declared, afterwards ; " walked
her off from among all the other people, engrossed
her whole attention  which she was
foolish enough to permit him to do ; but she
is so young, she does not yet know how to
manage,  and I do assure you, Julia, that the
man never left her, never spoke to any one
else, never let her alone for an instant throughout

the whole afternoon afterwards. I explained
to Eosamund her mistake in allowing
it, as soon as I could do so, and desired her to
be careful : but the next thing was the ball.
We went to the ball, as you know ; and of
course I could understand that, as the principal
host on that occasion, Major Gilbert should
dance first with my daughter. It was her
right, and I had no fault to find : no one else
was there who could have taken the pas.
But, my dear, the way he hung about her
throughout the evening, made her order the
music, have extra waltzes, so as to enable
them to linger in the supper-room, the air
with which he shawled her up for the carriage,
and took her out himself, and stood there in
the cold night-draughts  oh, my dear Julia,
the whole thing was unmistakable ! I was
at my wdts'-end ; and I could do nothing,  it
was their own entertainment, and they had the
right to order things as they chose ; and though,
of course, people must have remarked upon
it, I could not then and there go up to Major

Gilbert and say, ' I will not permit my daughter
to be made so conspicuous  I had to let
things take their course,"  the truth  the
plain unvarnished truth  being, that on the
occasion referred to, Lady Caroline herself
had been by no means above experiencing
gratification at beholding her fair young-daughter
the belle of the ball.

So long, indeed, as she had been persuaded
that all the devotion and admiration was confined
to his side, she had endured Gilbert ;
but of late there had been felt a creeping
sensation of alarm, which could not even be
confided to Julia, and which had found its
easiest vent in an ever-increasing dislike and
intolerance of his name. This, in her folly,
she had been unable to keep to herself, and
had thus increased the very evil she dreaded.

Every generous feeling Rosamond possessed
was soon aroused on behalf of one who, suspecting
nothing, was being daily scorned and
sneered at, to whom the lowest motives for
every action were invariably imputed, and

VOL. I. M

whose simplest civility was misconstrued.
Had her mother but permitted the little
flutter about the handsome soldier to die out
of itself, there is no saying how soon this
might have happened ; but instead, she had
actually fanned the flame she dreaded, and we
know the result.

For the moment she was overmastered in
spite of herself For her  a woman who had
never brooked opposition in her life  it was
absolutely terrible to be thus openly defied.
And she had not had even a chance of entering
the lists ere all was over. Those tears,
those dreadful tears !

She could almost have wept herself; and
then, to make matters still worse, and complete
the whole, the passionate girl, unable to command
herself, and overcome by her victory
still more than she would have been by a
defeat, rushed like a coward from the room.

She has such a warm heart ! " explained
Lady Caroline, with a withering smile. " We
all know Eosamund."

CHAPTER X.

UNSKILFUL TACTICS.

Ne'er with your children act the tyrant's part ;
'Tis yours to guide, not violate the heart."

Thomson.

The amiable Waterfields were only second to
Lady Caroline herself in their perturbation
and distress at Rosamund's indiscretion. Gilbert
had been introduced to the Liscards by
them, and it had been on their recommendation
 their somewhat over warm recommendation,
as they were fain to call it afterwards
 that he had been admitted within
the sacred precincts of King's Common.

We know how happily had. been timed his
first appearance at the Grange, but it is due
to the ladies then assembled to state that,

with the exception of the youthful and inexperienced
Eosamund, the impression then
made had speedily been lessened by after acquaintance.
Very soon had each and all made
up her mind that slight were his claims to
anything beyond a passing notice ; for, not
having been blinded by themselves being objects
of his bold attentions, and further, having
had some experience of the world whereof
poor Eosamund had seen literally nothing,
the sisters had ended by being disgusted, not
only with the pert jocularity and forward
pretensions of the roistering soldier, but with
themselves for having given him a moment's
encouragement.

*' It shows one cannot be too careful," had
been Mrs Wakefield's conclusion ; and she
and Lady Caroline had shaken their heads
very comfortably over the subject, so long as
Lady Caroline, looking upon Gilbert as the
sole offender, had been able to ease herself of
a grievance that, in truth, gave her no real
uneasiness.

Assuming, vulgar upstart as this man was,
he was still at the head of the neighbouring
military quarter; and his running after her
daughter in season and out of season, though
it was a piece of unbounded presumption, and
could not be loudly enough denounced, was
something to be secretly rather proud of than
otherwise. She triumphantly informed Julia
of Eosamund's conquest.

As for Beatrice Wakefield's girls, my
dear, he passed them over without giving
them a second glance. It was at their house,
you know, he met Rosamond ; and no doubt
any one of them would have been happy
enough to have been distinguished by him.
Oh, I mean no harm ; Beatrice's daughters
are all well behaved,  but, at any rate, he
had been asked there, and there he met
Rosamond. I do not altogether blame him
that is to say, I should not have blamed
him, if he had not made her so conspicuous.
It is tiresome for her to be marked out in the
way Major Gilbert does it. She, poor child,

is quite unconscious"  (which was all Lady
Caroline knew about it)  "and my hope is
that when he finds he makes no way with
her, and receives no encouragement from me,
he will give over coming to the house."

To make assurance doubly sure, she had
soon after this begun the line of conduct
which had roused to opposition the self-willed
young lady. She had omitted no opportunity
of throwing out innuendoes and conveying
insinuations; and, worst mistake of all, had
ceased not on any and every possible opportunity
to draw comparisons between Gilbert
and the favoured Portland.

With her, Portland could do no wrong,
Gilbert no right.

Now when this is the case with an undisciplined
and uncontrolled nature, prone to
force its own opinions, aversions, and predilections
upon all around, it may well be seen
that nothing can be more injurious to the end
in view than such unskilful tactics.

The partial light in which the young peer

was viewed by his elderly relation served
indeed to make the servants doubly obsequious
and obliging, and Mr Liscard easy about
inviting Portland to stop dinner whenever he
found him on the premises of an afternoon ;
but it did him harm rather than good with
the member of the family whom it was most
desirable to conciliate. Rosamund's sense of
justice was revolted : she could not endure to
hear Portland praised for what would have
been not only a faux pas, but a positive
social crime in any other person : Portland
would come over in the twilight, ask to stop
on, and excuse himself for sitting down to
table in his shooting-clothes, because he had
let the time slip by till it was too late to go
back and change  and Lady Caroline would
only find it friendly and relations of him todo
so. But woe betide any other youth who
had ventured on such a liberty ! What would
have been thought of the Liscard boys, for
instance, nearer by far in point of blood than
this new-homer, if they had treated their aunt

in SO casual a fashion ? No one was more
nice about the trifling proprieties, and less
likely to overlook what she would have
termed a slovenly disregard for them, than
Lady Caroline. The poor young Liscards
shook in their shoes every time they entered
her august presence : the poor lads could
hardly be induced to go to the house; and
as for offering themselves for any mortal
thing, and purposely letting the time pass
till it was inconvenient to make ready for
it, they would as soon have thought of intruding
en deshabille into the presence of
their sovereign.

Sometimes Eosamund longed to shake Hart-land
on his throne. She would have rejoiced
to behold him topple over, and mark what
would follow ; but it was an event she could
not but own was little likely to happen with
one so unconscious and unassuming.

In amends possibly for his earlier uncharitable
feelings towards the two ladies, he had, as
we know, yielded at once to Lady Julia a very

real affection, and to Lady Caroline a more
dubious goodwill, but he had not the slightest
desire to find himself upon the pedestal to
which they had simultaneously exalted him ;
and it intensified Rosamund's sense of Gilbert's
wrongs more than anything else could have
done, that while the one did not hold up so
much as his little finger to maintain himself in
his high position, all the efforts put forth by
the latter to procure Lady Caroline's bare
toleration, only served to plunge him deeper
and deeper in the 'slough of her ill-will.

Matters stood thus when all eyes were
opened by Rosamund's burst of tears.

All eyes were opened, including Rosamund's
own. She had been altogether unaware of
having felt so much : vexatious wounded feeling,
and a smouldering sense of injustice on
his behalf, had all been working secretly for
the absent and oppressed during some weeks
past ; but had it not been for this new attack
upon him called forth by his very harmless
and respectful offer of hospitality, it is probable

that all might have gone on as before, for sometime
longer at any rate.

The principal point now in Lady Caroline's
mind was, what did Portland say to it ? She
could control her daughter, and extinguish
Gilbert; but if Portland were to look on
Eosamund's folly in a serious light, who could
estimate the damage it would do her 1

As it happened, Portland himself gave his
cousin the benefit of his opinion within a few
days ; but it is difficult to tell whether Lady
Caroline would have been more relieved or
mortified had she played eavesdropper on
the occasion.

The two met in the shrubbery, and there
was no escape for either, when, between the
giant laurel hedges, hard, close-clipped, and
unyielding, they found themselves face to face.
He had been at the farm, she had just comedown
from the house, and both were bound
for the lower garden ; yet, perhaps, they would
sooner have given up their several errands there,
rather than have had to do them in company.

There was, however, no help for it.

I was desired to remained Netley about the
geranium-cuttings," said Portland, explaining
his presence. '' Are you coming to the garden
? "

She had her basket and scissors on her arm,
and could not deny it. The morning was
lovely, and she was going to cut some late
roses for the drawing-room. They walked on
together, and he opened a gate for her ; then,
with a sudden resolution to get over an awkwardness,
took the bull by the horns as soon
as he had again fastened the latch. " I think
you are right to stand up for the absent, Rosamond.
There is no need to be ashamed of
of  having been a little bit excited, you
know, the other day. I daresay they have
been telling you it is bad form, and all that,
but never you mind. There was no harm
in it at all."

It was all true what I said," murmured she.

'' I daresay it was, and it was very plucky
of you to say it."

Mamma is so angry with me."

'' Is she ? "

"Oh, Hartlancl, you do not know ; you have
no idea. Mamma is so fond of you, that
your only being by, makes her gentler and
kinder, at least less unkind to those she hates,"
cried the young girl, suddenly overflowing
with her wrongs again. " I could not help it
the other day. I really could not, though it was
so silly of me, and though, of course, it was
not Major Gilbert I cared about, not one hit''

Of course not."

It was the whole thing. And it has gone
on so long, almost ever since he came here.
If mamma does not take to any one at the
outset, she sees nothing good, or kind, or pleasant
in them. You cannot think how dreadful
it is to have a  a friend come in to the
room all unsuspecting, and thinking you will
be glad to see him ; and perhaps he has taken
a great deal of trouble, and worked hard to be
able to get away, and does not mean to make
a mere call, but to stay a little,  and then he

is never asked to stay, and hardly allowed to
sit down ! It is  it does  I cannot bear it
sometimes. But it is not Major Gilbert I am
thinking of; at least, there are  others too,"
she added anxiously, and stole a glance at
her companion.

*' Oh, of course ; you don't like to do any one
a shabby turn," replied Portland, with cheerful
unconsciousness ; '' and I have no doubt
Lady Caroline has not thought it out as you
have  that's all. She finds afternoon visitors
a bore."

** But is it not very wrong, and very Unjust,
to pronounce upon  upon people of whom you
know nothing, just because they like afternoon
visiting 1 "

Portland laughed. He did not wish to give
an opinion.

I know I ought not to speak so of mamma,"
sighed Eosamund ; '' but   ."

She stopped.

'wei], no. I suppose not. I think I
shouldn't, if I were you."

'' I often try not to do it ; but ."

Another sigh.

*' Try again ; there's no harm in trying."

'' But ."

Well ? "

I never succeed."

She was burning to pour forth afresh, to inflame
the passionless young man with fuel from
her own fire, to get him on her side in the
struggle ; but insensibly she was herself feeling
the influence of his moderation.

I know you like mamma," she said, slowly.

Certainly I do."

And who could have helped laughing ? For
in Eosamund's tone there was an unmistakable
suggestion of " Strange as it may seem."
Lady Caroline being her mother, she loved her
mother, of course ; but that any one who had
not to love, should be able to like, was curious.

Her companion, however, laughed good-humouredly,
not as if there were anything
very particular to laugh at ; and she had no
fears of having amused him too much. " Certainly

I do," he said, with promptitude, and a
happy ignorance that there were not a dozen
people in the world who could have said as
much. " But, look here, Rosamund ; here's a
piece of profound wisdom for you, profit or not
by it as you think fit : even if I did not like
Lady Caroline, supposing I had to live with
her, I should he at pains to live peaceably with
her ; and if I were her son, or her daughter "

You would not have spoken to her as I
did the other day 1 "

That was it. She had hit the mark. No
one could have done the fraternal part better ;
and who would have dreamed that within
his breast a traitor voice was saying loudly,
Yet I could almost love you for it, Rosamund?
Rosamund, Rosamund, had I been
the defended absent one, I could quite have
loved you for those very rebel words ! "

We are not to go to the luncheon-party,"
announced she, presently.

That's a matter of course."

I don't know how mamma wrote, or what

excuse she gave ; but he, Major Gilbert, has
not been here since."

"His absence has nothing to do with
any offence taken, however," said Portland.
I can relieve your mind about that. I
hear he is gone off for two or three days ;
and he was away when that invitation was
sent."

Was he ? I did wonder that he did not
bring it himself. It was only sent by two
of the men, you know. I thought something
must have kept him back that day."

** Oh yes ; he had gone on leave for a day
or two," said Portland, smiling to himself at
her innocent revelation. '' I could have told
you that at the time, if I had known you
expected him."

Oh hardly ' expected.' "

*you thought he would have looked in fora
game of lawn-tennis ? " (For the new game
yclept lawn-tennis  familiar now to all,
was just beginning to take infantile hold in
England at that time.)

'' Yes."

''He had left the night before. I sent that
morning to ask him to shoot, and my letter
was returned''

If I had only known that," thought she,
bitterly, "I might have been saved all this.
It was thinking every moment that he might
walk in, and find mamma denouncing him,
and all of us listening round, that made me
give way. Why, oh why was I so foolish ?
Now we might have been going to this delightful
party like everybody else  for I saw
mamma was not at all set against it when
she first began  if I had but held my tongue !
And it is not only losing that  it is what he
will think, and how he will mind, and how
he will feel about it, that I care for. He will
never know how I fought for him ; he will
only get mamma's stony cold rejection. It
is hard." And though she did not say it
even to herself, what she really meant was 
*' It is hard that while my tears put me to
shame before all the rest, the only person

VOL. I. N

who might have profited by them was not

by")

Don't you take all this to heart," continued
Portland, recurring to the main point after a
further pause. " I mean about your mother's
objection to Gilbert ; it does him no harm, you
know," switching off a thistle-head which obtruded
across his path  for involuntarily they
had wandered on and on, till they had reached
a wild and overgrown region somewhere at the
back of the potting-sheds and cucumber and
melon frames.

Do you call it no harm to be slandered
and maligned behind your back, and before
those Wakefield girls too ? "

They know Gilbert for themselves. Your
mother's opinion cannot affect them."

"Why, of course it can," exclaimed Rosamond,
who, brought up under the shadow of
Lady Caroline, could not but feel surprised
to think that any one should not be oppressed
by its weight. "Mamma's good word is
thought so much of that every one is anxious

to get it ; and the Waterfields go by mamma
in everything. 1 know they were pleased
with Major Gilbert at the first, but lately I
have seen them growing stiffer and stifFer to
him ; and now, after what mamma said on
Wednesday, they will have gone home and
told every one there that he is "

'' What ? "

"Vulgar," said Eosamund, in a low, sad
tone ; " and it will have been mamma's doing.
She showed she thought him so herself," 
drawings a breath, as though the shameful
aspersion might have been supposed to have
been beyond even Lady Caroline.

Portland looked straight in front of him,
meriting further confidence.

*taunt Julia would never have found it
out  I mean imagined it," proceeded Rosamond,
with unconscious truth. " As long as
ever she possibly can, Aunt Julia thinks
mamma must be right; and it is only when
mamma is too  severe, that the poor little
auntie sits by with a disapproving face on.

That was the worst of all on Wednesday ; she
said one or two kind things, but she had not
on her disapproving face."

That meant a great deal."

It meant that, on the whole, she was on
mamma's side. She always thinks mamma
goes too far ; but I could tell she was with
mamma  at least more with her than with
me  and that was, oh yes, a great deal for
Aunt Julia."

She is generally benevolence itself."

"Yes, indeed."

"You never hear her speak evil of anyone."


"No,"

"And I believe she makes them better by
the mere thinking will of them," continued
Portland. " I never see my friends to greater
advantage than when they 'pal up' to Aunt
Julia. You know what to ' pal up ' is, don't
you, Eosamund ? I think you and I ' pal up '

very well when " he stopped short ; he

could not well say '' when we are let alone."

But Rosamund heard nothing; she was
pondering on how to bring him back to
Gilbert. Aunt Julia was all very well ; but
it must be confessed that as a topic the new
one was insipid, inferior in flavour to the old,
and, eager as she was to return to the latter,
she was yet maidenly enough to resist doing
so too openly. Over her vehement partisanship,
she would still throw the semblance of a
purely general sentiment.

Bashfulness, delicacy, or indifference  some
sentiment or other must have held Portland
back at the same time, for he also let Aunt
Julia drop, and hesitated before reverting to
the subject which had previously occupied
both their thoughts.

Conversation was thus at a momentary standstill,
when, on a sudden, a loud " Halloo ! "
rang through the fragrant air, causing both to
turn their heads and halt on the instant.

It must be reserved for another chapter to
tell whom they saw advancing swiftly through
the young plantations.

CHAPTER XL

IN YOUR PLACE I SHOULD NOT HAVE
PRESUMED."

'' I would not have you invade each place,
Nor thrust yourself on all societies,
Till men's affections, or your own desert,
Should worthily invite you to your rank."

Ben Jonson.

Of course it was Gilbert.

Talk of the /' said Hartlancl, with a

glance of guilt at his companion ; and leaving
her to apply the quotation or not as she chose,
he stepped forward, shook his stick in welcome,
and hallooed a response.

Neither he nor Eosamund looked at all disturbed.
Of the three, Gilbert was the only
one who showed himself in any way put out
or uneasy. He did not know whether he

were not interrupting ; lie would have liked to
be sure that the cousins did not feel caught, in
spite of their coolness ; and satisfied as he had
hitherto been on the point, like a true soldier
he was always ready to allow that he might
be taken in the flank. Lord Portland, although
he had never yet shown himself a rival, might,
for all that, be stealing a march in the dark.
He shot a scrutinising glance, and twisted his
moustache as he approached the pair.

I thought it very likely that I should meet
some one," he observed, shaking hands ; '' my
only hope was that it might be some one who
would not have me up for trespassing; it
would have been rather appalling to have been
set upon by all your gardeners, and bundled
over the hedge ; " and he tried to laugh easily.
"The fact is, I came up the side path, by
which you were once good enough to show me
out,"  to Eosamund.

She coloured, and Portland understood. It
was a pleasant memory, and both liked to
recall it''

But being shown out is a different thing
from showing one's self in," commented the
third person, internally. '' I should not have
presumed, had I been in your place, Major
Gilbert")

No one, however, asked for his opinion.
Frank approval only beamed from Eosamund's
sparkling eyes ; and if the idea that her lover
had been presumptuous did cross her mind, it
was only to thank her good fortune that she
and no one else had stumbled across him in
the act.

I had no very clear idea of my whereabouts,"
continued Gilbert ; " but I made sure,
from the smoke rising, that I was near the
vineries, and supposed there would be an
entrance not far off. It cuts off a long round,
coming through the woods. I walked over.
I did not bring the trap, as I was in hopes
Lady Caroline might ask me to stop luncheon,
and we could have our very last match at
lawn-tennis for this season, afterwards. Do
you think she will? Shall I have to beg

it very humbly? Ill say anything, you
know''

"Yes. Oh, I am sure," murmured Rosamond,
with a troubled look that went to her
cousin's heart in site of his diversion at the
ludicrous dilemma thus opened. '* I think  I
am sure  that is "

(''That is, if you would go round by the
front door, and keep quiet about this side path,
and meeting us, and lawn-tennis, and everything
you ought not to mention," was what
she wanted to say,  but how make this understood
?)

I am sure mamma is  at home," continued
the speaker, hurriedly ; " and though we have
taken in our nets, as the weather has been so
bad lately, they can be put up again in half a
minute. I will tell the men on our way back."

Just the day for a game, isn't it ? " said
Gilbert, looking round. " What a lot of glass
you have here ! It must require a tidy lot of
men to keep it all in working order. A fine
show of grapes too," peering in, as he passed a

house. 'the door is locked, I'll wager,"
trying the handle. "That's always the way.
They never let you touch one on the vine.
At my father's I always make 'em bring the
key "

We have forgotten the roses, Portland,"
said Eosamund, suddenly stopping short.

'' And the geranium-cuttings," added he.

Roses '? Geranium cuttings ? " interrogated
Gilbert.

I came down on purpose to gather some
of the late roses for mamma, and Portland
had commands for geranium-cuttings for Aunt
Julia," said Rosamund, laughing ; " and here
we have never once thought of either, and it
is too late to go now. We are bad messengers,
Portland."

'' You had forgotten all about them '? "
demanded the new-comer, as though struck
by the idea. "Were you going for them, by
any chance, when you met me ? "

That, he thought, might reasonably account
for forgetfulness on her part, if not on Hart-land's.

But to his dismay, it did not appear
that his appearance on the scene had had anything
to do with it.

We  where were we going, Portland ? "
said Rosamond.

Portland knew as little as she. He looked
at her, looked about him, and confessed his
blank ignorance.

'' Lord ! " ejaculated Gilbert with an angry
laugh, for he did not like this. "I never
heard such a joke in my life. Not know
where you were going ! Lord ! It is as well
that neither of you is in her Majesty's service,
that's all I have to say. Come then.
Miss Rosamond, let me help you to get the
roses "

Oh no, it is too late."

Too late ? Not at all. It is only "

Luncheon-time, by my internal clock,"
said Portland, divining her feelings. 'so I
am off, whoever else stays. Geranium-cuttings
must bide their time. Good-bye, Rosamond."


(" Off, is he," thought Gilbert. " I did him
wrong then. But if so, why in the name of
wonder did he look so plaguey odd 1 Be
hanged if I didn't think for more than a minute
that there was something between them ! ")

He could not, however, think it longer.

Oh, don't go, Portland, pray, pra?/ don't
go," cried Eosamund, so frankly, so imploringly,
nay, so despairingly, that no girl could
so have spoken to a possible lover. "You
must come in with us,  with me  indeed,
indeed you must' she continued, catching
hold of his arm ; then with a sudden recollection,
*' I must tell you, Major Gilbert, that
mamma and I had a little difference this
morning,  lately,  and  and, if Portland
would come back with me, he is such a favourite
with mamma "

Lord ! yes, we all know that," cried Gilbert,
sticking out his chin, as was his wont when
more than ordinarily self-assertive. '* We can
all see that with half an eye."

Please do, Portland ; please do come,"

whispered the fair petitioner, still holding him
fast, as though fearing that at any moment he
would slip from her grasp. " You know," ina
lower aside ; " you know how it will be if
you do not."

Oh, I'll come if you like, Eosamund. I
say, do you not think I had better take Major
Gilbert round by the stable-yard, and show
him your pony's foot ? He will judge whether
we are treating it properly. If you go in by
the terrace we will follow directly, and perhaps
 ahem !  perhaps you had better just
tell your mother  she might like to know
that I am bringing Major Gilbert in to
luncheon."

Bringing Gilbert ! If it were not the truth
to a hair's-breadth, it was at least a kindly
intentioned and adroit adaptation of it to the
necessity of the moment  and well did the
giver of the message comprehend all that it
would accomplish. With Lady Caroline such
a mantle of protection would cover even Gilbert's
sins.

Further protection and relief was also in
store. In the drawing-room sat Amy and
Violet Wakefield, who had come to invite
her to the Grange, but who, instead, had been
themselves detained by Lady Caroline, who
by some means or other had known Portland
was about, and suspected he had fallen in
with his cousin. " Even yet she may be
saved if we can but keep her from ever meeting
that odious man again," she had thought
in allusion to Gilbert, and had pressed the
Wakefield girls to stay. In her heart, moreover,
she knew that she was afraid of her
daughter, afraid of irritating her further, unwilling
to stir the smouldering embers. There
had been something of an explanation between
the two stubborn, self-willed women behind
the scenes, and Eosamund had been sufficiently
humbled to profess a vague regret for having
"forgotten herself" in public, while Lady
Caroline had gone so far as to allow that she
mio-ht also have said a little more than she
had intended on the other hand,  and each

had carefully kept aloof from the subject
thereafter. The company of others was inconsequence
rather welcome than otherwise
even to the unsociable mistress of the mansion,
and she was talking with a fair show of amiability
to her young visitors, when her daughter
entered with Portland's message, followed almost
immediately by Portland himself Gilbert
was behind him.

Lady Caroline's feelings may be imagined ;
we may therefore turn to those of the lovesick
major.

He was in luck, he thought ; he had not to
encounter that frigid back in the blue gown all
by himself. The gown was there, it is true,
but other gowns were there also ; and after
quitting Lady Caroline's cold fingers, he coukl
grasp nimbly two other hands, which, if they
did not respond to his pressure, at least did
not feel like dead fish in his own.

To say that the Waterfields did not recognise
the value of their position at the moment
would be to do them injustice ; they were

neither clever nor brilliant, nor by any means
humorous young ladies, but they did see the
fun of this. Gilbert, as he looked gratefully
into one gentle and seemingly unconscious
face after the other, thinking, "Ay, ay, you
are the right sort of tip for me, with your
stupid good-nature ; you will neither see anything
nor tell it again," would have dropped
down in amazement had he beheld what was
in their breasts. " No, no ; they are no
count," he decided, " and they will serve to
amuse the other fellow by-and-by ; so once weare
out of the way of old Bluegown"  and
even in old Bluegown's presence the handsome
soldier looked jubilant round.

Everybody is about this jolly fine morning,"
he observed; 'the road is full of carriages
and gigs. I met lots of people tooling
about."

The same observation, differently expressed,
had gone the round, it may be remembered,
on the previous Wednesday, and if anything
had been wanting to recall the meeting of

*' It was too fine not to tempt ns out,"
replied Violet Wakefield, as no one else
spoke. " Lady Caroline, you are never idle ;
you never put by your work for a morning
ramble."

** Correspondence accumulates so rapidly,
that I have been at my desk ever since
breakfast, Violet, because I had to leave it
yesterday."

You were in town yesterday 1 "

I ran up for the day, yes."

(" Dash it ! if I had only known I " reflected
Gilbert.)

We saw you at the station," said Miss
Wakefield ; ' and knowing you as we do,
we ought to have recollected you would be
especially busy to-day in consequence. But
you see, even if we had left you in peace, here
would have been Lord Portland."

"Failing me, Major Gilbert," said Portland ;
and the general smile a little faded.

VOL. T.

I am always happy to see my friends,"
affirmed Lady Caroline, with ever so slight an
emphasis on the last word ; " but now that I
have a grown-up daughter, she must help to
entertain them, and  there is the gong !  now,
Violet, now, Amy ; Portland, I want to speak
to you about the new farm-buildings ; " and
she fell back to keep pace with him, but swept
past Gilbert, who officiously whirled a basket-chair
out of her path, as though he had been
the footman. She had never once addressed
him since his entrance.

Luncheon at Kincy's Common was something
of a function.

Lady Caroline liked solemnity, state, and
silver covers ; Mr Liscard liked, for dyspeptic
reasons, to make the meal his early dinner.
Both were fairly early risers and brain-workers
after their own fashion, consequently both had
good appetites, and made the most of them.

You can always count on a rattling good
lunch there," Gilbert had informed his sisters,
he having more than once made good his

resolve to stay for it. " Whether any one is
expected or not, it is always the same  lots of
good things."

Up and down the table there would be a
variety of nice little hot dishes, curry, cutlets,
pork griskins, lamb's fry, and the like ; savoury
but hideously indigestible viands, as every one
but Mr Liscard allowed, and as he better than
any one else knew. Still, he would have them,
liked them, ate them, and suffered for them ;
and nothing annoyed him more than to be
begged to confine himself to the plain joint.

The plain joint would be there, one at each
end of the table, presently to disappear to the
servants' hall ; and there would further be a
goodly array of roast and boiled cold meats,
raised pies, and stout cut-and-come-again game
jellies on the sideboard.

No little silver mugs nor high perch chairs
were visible, however. No round, rosy faces,
surmounting clean pinafores, beamed expectantly
up and down the board. The children
in their distant schoolroom were invisible and

inaudible, and never had the luckless Gilbert
more regretted their absence than on the
present occasion.

He was fond of children  the more the
merrier, and the noisier the better. Had
the little troop, known to be not far off, now
filed in, he would have fitted them into their
seats, tied on their feeders, cut up their portions,
and with jest and chaff have got through
the meal hilariously. Every minute he would
have found something fresh to say, something
funny, wherewith to elicit the shy chuckle or
saucy rejoinder  added to which, a series of
pleasing feats connected with oranges, forks,
and table-napkins, would have made him the
centre for every young one's eye, and the momentary
idol of their imagination.

But here, as usual, he was balked by Lady
Caroline's austere rules. A man can hardly
attitudinise with an orange, and catch it on
a lively fork, for the benefit of grown-up
people, sitting solemnly round, conversing in
serious, ceremonious tones  people content to

be dull, and without either desire to be or
intention of being otherwise ; and although
the ill-starred major did finally create a diversion
which suspended for a full minute the
murmuring of undertones and the noiseless
circling round of the servants, it was by an
involuntary and a not altogether successful
performance.

His neighbour asked for water,  asked a
footman, not him,  but seeing a bottle near,
and anxious to be attentive, he stretched
forward to reach it, and upset his claret-glass.
A claret-glass just filled contains a
fair amount of wine, and Gilbert's plate was
the receptacle for nearly two-thirds of the
ruby liquid.

Tablecloth and napkin had their share, however,
and his own coat-sleeve did not escape.
The mess was a complete one.

Had Portland done it, had any one else
at table done it, nobody, not even Lady Caroline,
would have cared two straws ; it was
hard that such a thing should have happened

to the only person present whom it could
render uncomfortable.

For the moment Gilbert's courage failed
him ; he looked piteously round, and for the
first time in his life had neither apology nor
laugh at command.

It took but a few minutes ere plate and
glass had been removed, clean damask spread
over the soiled, sleeve wiped, and the misdemeanour,
rather red in the face, started upon
a fresh supply of roast mutton ; but in that
brief interval he had almost lost all appetite.

The time had seemed long, and no one had
done anything to shorten it.

Rosamund was far from him, and while
writhing beneath the rigid unconsciousness
of a hostess whose marble visage absolutely
ignored the accident, its effects, and the subsequent
restoration to order, he had not met a
single eye of sympathy.

Had he not been so very hungry he could
not have allowed another plate to be set before
him. But he had only just begun, and the

mutton was excellent. He could not decline
it, nor the late peas, and tomatoes, and succulent
French beans, of all which he had before
laid in an untasted supply, and to which it did
seem cruel that he should have again to help
himself beneath Lady Caroline's very nose.
The result was that he ate more inelegantly
than ever in his haste to catch up with the
rest of the party, and fright lest he should
at any moment find himself plying knife and
fork alone.

The hurry was needless. Portland sent for
some more cold beef.

"Are you going to do great things at the
flower-show, Lady Caroline ? " he inquired, at
the same time.

I am afraid not, Portland. Netley tells
me he has nothing worth showing this year."

Nothing worth showing ! " exclaimed Gilbert,
thinking he saw an opportunity. ' In
your beautiful garden ! Well, if he has nothing
worth showing, he has plenty worth
looking at, that's all I can say."

The flowers for competition are not the
same as those ordinarily put out in the garden,"
observed Lady Caroline coldly,  but
still it was something to have won so much.
Her garden was a weak point.

No one hereabouts can compete with you,
I suppose '? "

'' Oh dear, yes." Not that she thought fora
moment any one could, but the rejoinder
could contain an inflection of " Much you
know about it" which could not be let
pass.

The gardeners nowadays are such awful
swells," proceeded Gilbert, turning for relief
to Amy Wakefield. " A gardener is like a
doctor  or a painter  he'll grow his one
thing, his speciality, and he'll do nothing

else. Have you ever noticed " and then

just as he fancied he was going to lean back
in his chair and be a little mildly entertaining,
and show that he was quite at home and at
his ease, he found himself upon his feet, everyone
else the same, and the ladies about to

leave the room. The meal was over but
he could hardly be said to have shone
at it.

Now, however, things must inevitably
brighten.

Mr Liscard, who liked his cigarette after
luncheon, was approachable, if nothing else ;
and though he invariably talked over Gilbert's
head and assumed his acquaintance with the
most recondite authors, of whose very existence
the unfortunate soldier had hitherto been
ignorant, yet it was something to be talked to
at all.

"If I could only come up now to the
scratch," thought he, as Portland rose to go
home and get himself into flannels for the
proposed lawn-tennis, "if I could just get
it out now;" but on the whole he decided
to wait.

Curious that idea of Kant about his digestion,"
began the scholar, crossing his knees
placidly and opening the conversation with
as familiar an intonation as if he had said

Bobby or Jack ; rather more so, indeed, since
the internal organs of the latter couple were
not interesting to him as a parent.

Indeed ? " (" Who the plague was Kant ? "
demanded Gilbert of himself. " I know the
name of course, but  well, all I can do is
to lie low, and wait for a lead") "And so
he had a queer digestion, did you say ? " he
continued, interrogatively.

Or he thought he had, and took all sorts
of fancies into his head to remedy it. Never
read his life ? "

N  no, no ; I can't say I have. I  we
military men don't have much time for reading,
you see. I'm afraid books are not much
in our line."

True. You leave them to us," replied Mr
Liscard, feeling complimented, in a vague delicate
fashion, by the apologetic air with which
the avowal was made. "And between ourselves,
Kant is deep, certainly deep. His
Fundamental Principles of the Metaphysic
of Morals,' for instance."

'' His luhcctf" ejaculated Gilbert, both eyes
opening.

*' His ' Theory of Ethics,' likewise' proceeded
Mr Liscard, as though unconscious of
the effect produced,  " both are undeniably
tough. Fine, but profound. It does not do
to touch them on the surface. I have him all
in there," with a wave of his hand towards
the library, " and I look forward to studying
him thoroughly in my first leisure time ; but
at present I must confess," with a glance towards
his companion, for he wondered how
much of the confession Gilbert would comprehend,
 " I must own I have contented myself
with the memoir. The memoir is exceedingly
interesting : especially in the account
it gives of the quaint old fellow's habits and
mode of life. He only ate one meal a- day,
you know."

Really ? But surely that was  was "

(now what was it ? cogitated the speaker, internally.
"What am I to say it was? A
good or a bad notion ? Sensible, or the reverse

1 If the old gentleman would only look
a little less like a sphinx, and give me some
sort of idea of what he wants me to say, I
should say it like a shot. But when all he
does is to look at me like that  however, here
goes") " That was a strange thing to do,
certainly," he observed, with wise reticence.

He made the most of it, however," rejoined
the other, well satisfied to be so excellently
listened to, and not sorry in his heart
to perceive that little as he really knew, and
poorly as he would have shone had he been
among sages, he could fearlessly prattle in his
present company. ' We are told that he
often sat over this solitary meal for three or
four hours "

Bless my soul ! "

He did indeed, during which his conversation
is said to have been most brilliant. I
own, however, that this I, for one, can hardly
reconcile with his other whim concerning the
digestion "

Oh, ah !  yes  the digestion. What

was it about the digestion ? You were just
going to tell me."

Considering it undesirable for the brain
and stomach to be working at the same time,
he always preferred to walk alone after dinner,
for fear of being tempted to talk. He
went so far as to consider it a bad thing even
to open his mouth," continued Mr Liscard,
solemnly.

Good gracious ! "

'' This, however, it seems, was only in later
life."

"Well, I should hope so."

'rand it is in curious contradiction of
another German philosopher's ideas on the
same subject."

"Is it, indeed r'

The one but upon my word, I forget

who it was,  dear me, how stupid I am !
Why, I know his name as well as my own,
and yet it has escaped me at this moment,"
bending his brows in cogitation. " Now,
what can his name be ? "

Perhaps if you would recall the  the
anecdote," hinted Gilbert.

Yes ; well, I can do that. And you maybe
able to help me to recollect  though how
I ever came to forget  however, this is the
story. One of these thinking men  these
whimsical students, full of fancies  took it
into his sage head that cold air  the colder
the better  was a famous tonic for the inside.
It may be  I don't pretend to know ; but one
thing I am very sure of, I don't intend to
chance it, at least in his way. His way was
this. Directly he had swallowed his food,
instead of sitting quiet, smoking, and chatting,
as we are doing now, he would dart out-of-doors,
and race up and down like a steam-engine
 against the wind  if there were any
mouth wide open, gulping it down wholesale,
as if he were filling an air-cushion. Peculiar,
that, eh 1 "

*' Very," assented Gilbert,  and the sudden
speculation as to what would be Lady Caroline's
sensations should he appear in front of

her ladyship's windows, running open-mouthed
against the wind, with a view to swallowing
cold air, caused him to laugh in spite of himself.


Mr Liscard, who never laughed, was nevertheless
content to have been amusing.

Cicero used to lie down flat upon his
stomach," continued he, after a few puffs.

'' And the fellow who devoured oysters and
figs by the ton, I should like to know what
remedy he adopted ? " said Gilbert. " Worth
knowing, that. To be able to lay in such a
cargo every day without damaging the concern
must be fine."

Of whom are you thinking, I wonder '? "

"Of an emperor  a Woman emperor  but
be hanged if I know which. I am not up in
them, I own. But this fellow was a notorious
glutton "

The epithet would apply  ahem ! 

pretty generally," and Mr Liscard smiled approvingly,
for the conversation was quite to
his mind, and he did not find his companion

more ignorant than many others. " I suspect
you mean Tertullus. If anything, he exceeded
the others in the proportions of his appetite.
Yes, it certainly is amazing what an amount
can be consumed by a single individual, given
time and appetite. Time is the chief thing.
That is the principal reason why the French
have such a much greater capacity for taking
in supplies at once, and also for digesting
them afterwards, than we have ; they sit a
long time at table, and allow a reasonable
period to elapse between each course. Here
we hurry and scramble. I tell Lady Caroline
every day I wish the servants would not
sweep my plate out of sight the moment I
have finished, and have something else at my
elbow before I know that it is gone. Servants
are all alike, you may do what you will.
Literally, I have sometimes to hold on to my
plate while I am talking, or else it will have
vanished before I have done saying what I
have to say ! "

Hard lines, indeed."

Aud afterwards one should sit peacefully
awhile ; not bolt off as Lord Portland has
done, directly the food is down."

"You like to sit still for a bit' said
Gilbert, concealing the chagrin he dared not
show, for he was himself now eager to be off,
and not having eaten nor drunk enough to require
inactivity such as his host advocated,
thought the worthy gentleman might very
well have now made a move.

At all events he might have permitted him

to do so.

But a companion was just what suited Mr

Liscard at this hour.

I do not consider reading can be good,"
proceeded he ponderously, ** unless the book
be the very lightest of novels, and of those I,
personally, am not fond. Solid reading is
certainly to be avoided. Sleep, they tell me,
is not to be recommended ; and exertion of
any kind, it goes without saying, must be
injurious. In fact, all medical men, I believe,
are agreed in considering easy conversation as

VOL. I. P

the desideratum. Easy conversation' lifting
his glass to his lips, " without any exciting
ingredients."

"Such as a proposal," reflected Gilbert.
Well, another time will do for me, old gentleman
; and if easy conversion means another
bumper of this very respectable liquor," and
he helped himself with an air of satisfaction
not unpleasing to a host in the proper
humour for it.

What tortures poor Carlyle endured ! " It
appeared that the topic was not exhausted, as
one of the pair had half hoped it might have
been.

I suppose so. His health was  was very
bad, I suppose." He could certainly cope
better with Carlyle than with Kant, but
would have to be prudent even with the
sage of Chelsea.

Chronic dyspepsia. Foolish habits ; no
exercise ; and probably a wretched cook."

"People are such fools about exercise,"
observed Gilbert, who at last knew something:

of what he was talking about. " I
am sure I don't understand how they get
on at all without it. I could never do
without my three or four hours a - day of
walking, or riding:, or fencing;  it don't
matter what : keep the muscles going, say
I ; and when I have had my five miles' row
up-stream, and a tub and a change after it,
I am fit for anything''

'' So I should imagine. You are young and
strong. When you are my age you won't
want to row five miles either up or down
stream ; but I can still walk my four or five
along the road, and that is something, when
formed into a regular habit. The regularity
is the great thing. Many people will saunter
about the doors for six days in the week, and
take a great burst on the seventh, just as if
that would do them any sort of good. It is
taking every day a little, and a little, and a
little ; but I need not speak to you  you are
an active man and know what I mean."

"Well, yes, that's just what I am, Mr

Liscard." Health was Gilbert's hobby as
well as his host's, and he piqued himself on
the sturdiness with which he flourished the
dumb-bells every morning. "No, indeed, I
keep 'em all pretty brisk down at the barracks,
I can tell you. Most of us go in for
something. I encourage games and competitions
and gymnastics, you know ; they do a
lot of good if they only keep the youngsters
out of mischief. We are getting up a cricket-match
with the townsfolk next week. I don't
go in for cricket as much as I did ; a man has
no business with cricket at five-and-thirty,
but, hang it all ! I can handle the willow yet
when I'm wanted. I tell them they have
always me to fall back upon ; and somehow
or other it invariably seems they do have to
fall back on me. We have an excellent fives
court too ; and some of us are racket men.
Packets is about as good a game as any going,
to my mind. But after all, lawn-tennis is my
game now ; there is an open-air cheery feeling
about it, on a fine bright summer day, that is

equalled by nothing but the ring of the ice
on a frosty December afternoon, when you
have your skates on for the first skate of
the season."

To all of this Mr Liscard listened with a
certain appreciation. It was impossible not to
be in a measure carried away by the overflowing
vitality of the speaker, to note the
clear eye and ruddy cheek, the broad chest
and straight back, and to feel that these
offered themselves, as it where, as samples of
the sentiments above expressed.

No fault could be found with the samples.
Gilbert was an excellent specimen of his code ;
and of the code itself he nodded his approval.

Personally he did not find the glib soldier
jar upon his sensibilities, and he knew enough
of the world to perceive that, gentleman or
not, the man was probably a better man, more
respectable, more to be respected, than the
majority of those who came to his house.

He had already heard Major Gilbert spoken
of as a first-rate military man, likely to rise in

the service ; and also as a sensible fellow,
under whom a subaltern did well to be
placed ; he really did not see why he should be
so persistently pooh-poohed by Lady Caroline.

He had been informed by her ladyship of
what she termed the absurd pretensions of an
impossible suitor ; but, left to himself, he
should not in honesty have seen, nor did he
now see, the impossible part of the position.

He had twelve children. Twelve children
might grow to be twelve burdens. It was
Avorth while Id during into whom and what
this Major Gilbert was.

If it should turn out that he could maintain
a wife suitably (and there was no reason to
suppose he could not), what was there to prevent
the match ?

Eosamund was for it, he supposed. If she
had not been, the impatience and fretfulness
of his wife over the subject was unaccountable,
since he knew Lady Caroline well enough to
be tolerably sure she would not have bestirred

I Should Not HAVE Presumed." 231

herself to worry about a lover whose rejection
was resolved upon.

So then his daughter fancied Gilbert 1 He
would think the matter over.

Our readers will remember that, subject to
conjugal sway as the submissive husband
ordinarily was, there were occasions when he
could prove as unmanageable as anybody,
and the present seemed to offer as favourable
an opportunity for being so as he could
ever hope to have.

Even alone and single-handed he had now
and again settled her ladyship in a way that
had told for some time afterwards ; so that
at this juncture, with an ally, dauntless and
determined as Lady Caroline herself, was he
likely to quail ?

Not he. Eosamund needed not to have
feared for him.

CHAPTER XII.

GILBERT IN A NEW LIGHT.

'' The fire i' the flint
Shows not till it be struck. "

Timon of Athens.

Gilbert on the lawn-tennis ground was perhaps
rather worse than Gilbert anywhere else.
It was, as he said, his great game. It was,
moreover, his chiefs opportunity ; for although
sea-songs, with a rattling bass accompaniment,
and round dances to the strains of
his own band, were neither of them to be despised
as occasions for showing to advantage,
they were as nothing compared to the smooth
grass on which he could dart and swoop, twist
and screw, shout directions to his partner,
chaff his opponents, cringe with eagle eye before

the swift-coming ball, and send it back
with the smash which won the stroke.

Even when not actively engaged, the discussing,
arranging, marching to and fro in his
pretty striped cap and jacket, measuring the
net, and tightening or loosening it as required
 anything and everything connected
with the sport was delightful to him  and his
mere walk across the court was an offence to
any one not prejudiced in his favour.

Eosamund, however, was resolved to see
nothing amiss. She had, at what cost to
herself she alone knew, stood to her guns in
defence of a maligned and injured man, and
that he was what she had affirmed him to be,
had now become with her a dogma.

Why should he not be merry, talk, jest, and
banter ? Why should he not back his side to
win, and crow loudly over the victory she also
shared ? Why should those ridiculous prudes
of Waterfields be so clearly, palpably, chillingly
unresponsive, and even Portland seem
quieter than usual ?

Provoked and irritated on every side, she
affected spirits she hardly felt ; and there was
now and then a sting in her gay rallying of
the others, which all but Gilbert understood
only too well. Already she was ranging herself
to do battle by his side.

Towards him she was inexpressibly, anxiously
kind ; his wishes were anticipated, and his
wants provided for, almost ere he knew them
himself; he was looked to for counsel, for
applause, or for sympathy  and handed his
balls when it was his turn for serving.

Their adversaries, Lord Portland and Amy,
were no match for them ; Eosamund could
give points to any one of the Wakefield girls,
and Portland had never taken particular pains
to be a player : ere he had returned to England
the game had taken hold, and he had felt himself
behind the rest of the world at it. Almost
from the first, therefore, the victory in every
set was a foregone conclusion, and every one
knew why a change of partners was not resorted
to.

Vote ought to be over there of course," said
Gilbert, aside to Eosamund, '' and I wonder
your cousin does not propose it; but as he
is content, I for one shall make no such suggestion."


You think we are too strong for them ? "

"To be sure we are. You can see it for
yourself. If I ever miss a stroke, you are
safe to pound it over from behind,  I cannot
help laughing when I see it fly over my head ;
we seem as if we must carry all before us, you
and I."

She felt what he meant, and to a look and
tone so full of significance there could be no
answer.

Play was resumed.

Then Lady Caroline came out on the lawn.
For a time she had left the young people without
supervision, aware that there could not be
many openings for sentiment in a vigorous
four-handed match at lawn-tennis ; but now
it occurred to her to see what was going
on.

Who arranged the partners 1 " forthwith
was demanded of Violet Wakefield, who was
sitting out.

*' I think they took shape of themselves,
Lady Caroline. Amy is better than I, so we
made her play against Rosamond."

This was not what was meant, as the speaker
very well knew, but it was an answer of some
kind ; it stopped the question trembling on
her august companion's lips, and made it impossible
for her to pursue her inquiries,  since
the only one she wished to make was, why is
Lord Portland playing with your sister, and
not with my daughter ? Had she known
anything of the game, it would have been
of course easy to demand why the two weaker
should be put in against the two stronger, 
but she was ignorant of everything about
lawn-tennis.

Games of all kinds were her abhorrence, and
it was only because, as she said, people would
play them, that she had at last given in and
had a ground made, to prevent King's Common

being the only place left in England without
one.

Could she have had her will, the innovation
would never have found its way into her
solemn, funereal assemblies. She had always
had her annual garden-party; her great tent
on the lawn, wherein a band performed select
pieces, and her other great tent wherein were
stately refreshments and rather weak claret
and champagne cups ; and she had thought
that everything went off well, and that all
were pleased and honoured by her condescension,
if she received now and again the conventional
murmur of " a delightful afternoon"
from a guest more habituated to falsehood than
the rest.

Her parties as a fact had been generally
detested, until Rosamund by perseverance and
resolution had effected something of a change.

They could not go on as they were doing,
the youthful revolutionist had declared. Their
stale old teas that had been getting ever staler
for the past half a century, would make them

the laughing - stock of the neighbourhood.
Portland had wondered why they did not
have a variety.

She had found out the magic key, the
minx. Portland's name, artfully introduced,
was almost sure to carry the day, once Lady
Caroline were wavering ; and to be told point-black
to her face that she was old-fashioned
and ridiculous, which it must be owned Rosamund
on one occasion actually did tell her,
was enough to make any one waver.

The fact was, Greek had met Greek, when
Lady Caroline Liscard brought out her eldest
daughter. Eosamund, capable of passionate
affections, of any amount of self-sacrifice, of
every generous and noble emotion, was not
to be ruled by an iron hand. Her spirit
simply rose beneath dictation ; and authority,
even lawful authority, when it carried neither
reason nor justice with it, could not fright her.
Had she loved her mother, loved, honoured,
and believed in her, a silken thread would
have been a chain to bind her in submission

absolute ; but alas ! she had learned, she knew
not how, to distrust, nay, more, to despise, 
and the result was, that when her blood was
up, no words were too sharp nor too cruel for
her ready tongues

No wonder that Lady Caroline at times
astonished the gentle Julia by the alacrity
with which she adapted herself to a new suggestion.
She was fain not to have it seen by
the world that it had not emanated from herself
in the first instance.

She now seated herself beneath the elms
gloomily. Her sky was fast clouding over,
and she had a presentiment of more evil yet
to come ; but nevertheless, even she little
dreamed that the storm was actually about
to burst, and that within the hour its rumble
would be heard approaching.

The sun was still high in the heavens, and
the players showing no signs of weariness nor
cessation, when, on a sudden, the game seemed
to come to a standstill, while all eyes were
turned in one direction.

Two or three small country boys could now
be seen running towards the lawn as swiftly
as their legs could carry them ; and it was
their shouting and gesticulations which had
caused the sudden suspension of flying balls.

They now came up nearly breathless, shouting,
screaming, and panting ; and as each
spoke, or tried to speak, he pointed behind
him, and vehemently endeavoured to make
himself understood. It was plain that an
accident, or dilemma, or something of the
kind, had taken place, for which assistance
was urgently demanded ; but it was some
minutes before the nature of the help required
could be comprehended from the confused
statements and entreaties of the excited
and incoherent children.

AVhat in the name of wonder do they
say?" cried Gilbert, turning to the others.
'' I can't make out a word " (the provincial
dialect being unfamiliar to him). " What do
they say 1 What is a ' dom ' ? "

"A dam  the mill-dam," replied Kosa-

muncl, her ear distinguishing just so much.
What is it about the mill-dam, George 1 "
quickly. " Has the water broken loose, as it
did in the spring ? ''

No, miss ; it's not the water "

*' No, miss ; the dom's that deep "

'' It's Billy, miss "

All three were gasping and spluttering at
once. It was impossible to hear.

Oh, what do you say ? You, George,
speak. Is any one in ? Is that what you
mean ? Be quick," and she almost shook the
little boy to hurry him up.

We went for to fish there, and his foot
slipped on the bank "

He's holding on by the willow "

It's him as is bottom o' your class in 
"

There is a boy in," cried Eosamund.
Now, boys, quick ! tell us where."

Holding on by the willow, but he can't
more than get a catch of it "

'' The willow ? What willow ? "

VOL. I. Q

** The big willow along of the white gate ;
but the water's terrible strong."

Can he swim at all 1 "

'' No, miss," loudly, from the united party.

Has no one," cried Eosamund shrilly, 
** has no one gone yet ? Didn't I see you
tell those men by the way 1 " pointing to a
couple of gardeners not far off. " Oh ! they
are going. But why don't they fly ? They
will never be in time. They "

Good God ! you may well say so ! The lad
will be drowned while we stand here talking,"
said Gilbert, suddenly. '' Here," catching the
biggest of the messengers by the collar, " here,
you, show me the way  sharp  scud like the
wind now  that's it ! Hang the boy ! he's
done for already. What on earth  well, I
must go on alone. Hark ye ! is it through
that gate ? Yes. And to the right ? Yes.
And through the wood ? And I come to
what *? A bridge and a white gate. All
right. Come along after me, in case I miss
the way," loosing his hold, and shooting ahead

like a rocket. In a few moments he was lost
to view.

'' A mill-dam is an ugly place for a swim,"
quoth Gilbert, now, to himself. " I wish I
could strip as I run ; but, any way, it's lucky
Vm in my flannels, and perhaps it is as well
not to be too soon. I have got to keep my
head now. If he has dropped off the willow
by this time, I am probably too late  if so, it
can't be helped, poor little chap ; but if he
drops off just as he sees me, there will be the
danger. He would grip me like a wild cat in
the water, unless I kept out of reach till he
had lost consciousness. That must be my
game. Otherwise it's 'good-bye' for us both,
for I could never keep both him and myself
up in a current like this, if he were tearing
me down. Ha ! there's the mill  ay, and the
bridge, and the gate  now for the willow,"
rapidly verifying each successive landmark ;
the willow  confound the willow ! where is
it ? Plague take it ! " casting a hawk's eye
up and down the stream. " Stop  yes  be 

hind this beech,"  he was up into it in a
second. '' Holloa, boy ! Hie, boy, hie ! Ho,
ho, ho 1 " But no shout came in answer.

Gone, by Jove ! " muttered Gilbert, kicking
off his shoes.

There's a pretty swirl in the water, but I
could manage it easy enough if I knew where
the poor beggar was," further considered he,
hastily letting himself down to the water's
edge ; " if I only knew how long he had been
in, and if he had been down more than once,
supposing he does come up. Hoy ! "  with a
sudden yell  " hoy ! there he is ! " and flashed
in himself just as the first among the other
runners emerged from the wood at the top of
the bank. They could not see the ghastly
face, with its terrified starting eyeballs, which
was turned full on Gilbert, as the agonised
shriek of the drowning boy rang through the
air; but they could perceive him leap from
the bough, and knew that hope was not
extinct.

That was his first coming up," concluded

Gilbert, swiftly. '' He could not have screamed
like that the second time, and it is quite possible
he may not even rise again. The current's
stronger than I thought. I should like
I should like to go for him next time, but
the risk's too great. It won't do to fool away
both our lives. Oh ! I see him  I see him !
You idiots  asses  hold your infernal tongues,
can't you ? " for the poor wretch had enough
on his hands without being distracted by
volleys of advice and suggestion from the
bank. '' Oh ! do be quiet, can't you 1 "
groaned he, internally.

Every nerve was at the fullest tension, eye
and ear were on the strain, and he was husbanding
his breath and his strength for the
life-and-death struggle to come,  and they
thought he did not know what he was
about !

He raised one hand, and shook it, and the
dumb command was understood. The voices
died away, and a breathless, awestricken
silence ensued ; while a swallow, that had

been scared away from the pool before, returned,
and skimmed hither and thither
athwart the swimmer's anxious vision.

He had, however, but a single minute of
such dread suspense.

In far shorter time than it takes to write,
the surface of the dark water was again broken
by the head and shoulder of the helpless boy,
and again a cry, but this time a feeble and
almost inaudible one, escaped.

Now for it," said Gilbert, setting his teeth,
and striking ont for the spot  for hitherto he
had kept as far aloof up-stream as he dared,
and had, as the event proved, calculated admirably
on the cast of the current in fixing
on the place where it would throw up its
victim for the second time.

He now made for the opposite bank, a little
lower down, and had scarce reached it ere a
formless mass, undistinguishable, yet unmistakably
him  or it  he sought, slowly floated
to the surface, within a couple of yards of
him.

It was long ere Gilbert could recall without
a shudder the touch of a forked bough, which
struck him sharply at that moment, and, to
his excited imagination, seemed to seize and
grip him in its hold.

He had pursued a course of action requiring
an amount of resolution and self-restraint beyond
the power of most men to put into force.
He had held himself in check as only a man
accustomed to emergencies and self-control
could have done ; and he had faced an awful
danger and an awful death with deliberate
and therefore double courage.

But the touch of that moss-grown branch
sent a stab to his heart, and his blood ran
cold for many a day afterwards when he
thought of it.

It needed but a moment, however, to reassure
his startled nerves. It was almost instantly
obvious that the unconscious object
by his side was powerless at last to compass
his own and his deliverer's destruction; and
the only fear now entertained by the bold

swimmer was lest life itself might be extinct
ere remedial measures could be taken.

He seized the child by his clothing  a stout
shirt  got one arm well round his waist, and
with the other struck a few powerful strokes,
reached the bank, and was but dimly aware of
what next took place.

The strain was over  no more was required
of him.

A mouthful of brandy, however, sent down
by some one's forethought, and a dozen respirations
lying extended on the warm grass, and
the brave fellow sat up again, none the worse
for it all.

He had been in time, the rescued boy still
breathed, and under vigorous rubbing and
chafing was giving satisfactory symptoms of
returning animation.

'' But it was a near thing for the little chap,
my lord ; another five minutes, and no one
could ha' done nothing for him," observed one
of those who had been busiest, but who now
gave way to others, and finding himself by

Lord Hartlaud's side, respectfully anticipated
his sympathy. " Only one of a thousand
could ha' managed as well as that there gentleman
did. Golly ! I never see nothing, like
it. To wait and wait, and hold back, and
hang back  there's some of us didn't seem to
take in what he was up to ; but, to be sure,
we might ha' known he's a doomed man as
tries to save the drowning till so be as they're
past trying to save themselves."

Portland assented by a mute movement.

'the water's powerful strong just at this
bit," continued the speaker, " and them little
rascals, they knows that as well as any one.
Many's the time they've been warned off it,
they have. Says I myself to some of them
not a week ago, says I, * You'll wait till some
of you's drownded, that's what you'll do, afore
you'll leave off meddling with that 'ere dom.'
And drownded that boy there, that son of
Barley's, would ha' been, sure as fate, but for
this gentleman. You see, my lord, none of us
can swim."

* Neither can I/' said Portland, in a low-voice.
The confession was very bitter to him.
He could not have told why, but he felt degraded
by it.

From the first moment when intelligence
had been brought of the accident, he had
known that no assistance was to be had from
him, except such as he could hardly hope
could be of any use ; but on the chance he
had run for a rope, while Gilbert was hurrying
straight to the dam. He had only now
arrived, and even his rope had been too late
to haul the rescuer and the rescued out of the
Water. He had not been able to procure one
sooner.

With mingled feelings of envy and admiration
he now hung over the man who had so
unhesitatingly and deliberately risked his life
and wio had been able to do it.

(she is a noble fellow. How paltry, how
unworthy in the light of this, seems all our
prejudice against any slight tricks of manner
or of speech ! How unutterably trivial his

offences ! He hears of a poor yokel's child, as
insignificant a human beings as can well be imagined,
in the jaws of death, and throws himself
into the same jaws as readily as he would
pluck a daisy. What a head he must have
to have kept cool in that horrid place ! " glancing
with a shiver at the dull, deadly current
in the hollow ; " one false move, one bit of
a bungle, would have lost all  and he knew
it. Well," after a pause, " well, if his heart
is equal to his head, Rosamond has not chosen
ill after all")

Yet he said it with a sort of sisfh.

CHAPTER XIII.

IS HE A FIT HUSBAND FOR YOUR
DAUGHTER, Theodore''

When a lover offers, madam, to take a daughter without a portion,
one should inquire no further: everything is contained in that one
article ; and ' Without a portion ' supplies the want of youth, beauty,
family, wisdom, honour, and honesty" 'Z'-lmre,' tr. hy Fielding.

Gilbert was now the hero of the hour.

The place he had so often coveted, and had
striven by foolish and ill-advised efforts to
obtain, was now unanimously and spontaneously
accorded him, and he awoke from a brief
trance to find himself the centre of an enthusiastic
group, brimming over with that honest
homage which Englishmen of all classes pay
to courage, daring, and success.

Moreover, it was vastly appreciated by those

rough worshippers, that not only had the gentleman
faced the ugly dam, and the still uglier
possibility of being dragged down into its
depths, but he had done it all for a poor bit
of a Billy Barley, Stephen Barley's eighth son,
who, bless him ! could ha' been spared better
than most, and who, for a lad as was always
in mischief, and never snowed himself whether
he were in or out, beat all the country round.

If anything had happened to the gentleman
a-getting out of Billy Barley, it would ha'
been a sore shame; and in their hearts they
added, Billy was not worth it.

As things were, however, and as no harm
had been done, they were immensely proud
and pleased that it had been thought by the
gentleman worth his while to put his own life
in jeopardy for that of the insignificant imp ;
and enough could not be made of him.

Barley himself was shoved and hustled
to the front.

It ain't along o' me to have many words,
sir," said the poor man, exhibiting a variety

of nervous movements ; " but there's all here
knows as there aren't but few as would ha'
done it. I  I don't exactly know what I
ought to say, sir."

Why, you say it uncommonly well, then,
my good fellow," replied Gilbert, kindly. '' Nobody
could do it better, I am sure. I am very
glad I was in time. How's the lad now 1 "

A coming' to, sir."

'' That's right ! Oh, he'll come to, sharp
enough, once he has got some breath into
him again ; but, I say, just take a little care
of him for a day or two. He'll not be quite
himself, till he has got over his ducking."

He'll not forget it, sir."

I hope he won't. It is a very good lesson
for them all."

'' I mean he'll not forget your doing it, sir."

'' Oh ! that's it ? Glad to hear it. Now,
then, give me a hand up, will you ? I must
be moving, and see about some dry clothes."

The grateful fellow almost lifted him in
his arms.

"You can't walk yet, Gilbert' said Lord
Portland, softly. It was the first time he
had ever addressed him without the prefix.

Oh yes, I'm all right. A little giddy.
Give me your arm for a moment. It will go
oflp directly." He passed his hand across his
eyes, shook himself, and declared it had
passed.

We can get the dog-cart down in no time,
my lord," suggested one of the bystanders,
eager to do something. " If the gentleman
will take my coat, and sit in the sun, I'll be
down again in a few minutes."

'* Ay, do. Bring it sharp," answered Gilbert
for himself. '' And, I say, we'll go upto
the bridge if you bring it there. There is
no need for any one to stop on here," he continued,
looking round. " The boy's all right, I
suppose."

He is talking now, my lord."

Don't let him talk," said Gilbert, quickly.
Keep him quiet. And, I say, carry him home
now as fast as you can, and put him to bed.

between blankets. If you all keep round him
like that, you will have him in a fever tomorrow.
Here," to Barley, " you are his
father ; you take him home, and mind he's
kept there. Keep him warm, and keep him
quiet ; d'ye understand ? Mind it's done,
then."

His clear, quick tones, his brevity and conciseness,
and, above all, the evident expectation
of prompt and unquestioning obedience,
made him so completely another man from
the Gilbert Portland had hitherto known,
the restless, ill-bred, and ill-appease Gilbert of
the drawing-room, that it seemed as if a film
had fallen from his companion's eyes.

He now beheld the commanding officer,
cool in danger, alert in following up a victory,
wary of possible evils even in the hour of
success, quick of eye and tongue, but thoughtful
and considerate for the same inferiors,
from whom his whole demeanour compelled
respect and subservience.

Portland had, he now owned, disliked and

despised Rosamund's friend. Despise him lie
never could again, and he resolved at once
to begin to conquer the dislike.

Nothing but his own peculiar position in
the Liscard household had hitherto prevented
his openly showing the feelings with which he
had regarded the guest so often to be met
with there ; and although he had not approved
of Lady Caroline's tactics, and had been vexed
and revolted by the final explosion, he had devoutly
wished his fair cousin had fired upon
behalf of any one else.

All this was past. Honour and justice
urged him to remain neutral no longer.

To say nothing against Major Gilbert had
been all very well heretofore ; but now to
pass by his merit, and let it be supposed that
want of polish could still, outweigh sterling
worth, was not to be thought of.

Gilbert had shown himself to be a gallant,
intrepid fellow, inspired by a noble humanity
which it would be a crying shame not to
recognise and rate at its true value ; and what

VOL. I. R

did his callousness to the trifling proprieties
and convenances of society signify in comparison
1

The subject of these reflections should now
be viewed with another eye.

It seemed to him that Gilbert's voice, look,
manner,  all were changed. He spoke tersely
and unaffectedly : he looked happy  as who
would not have looked happy 1  but neither
elated nor important. And, best of all, there
was, in the place of any affected jocularity or
indifference, a seriousness that became the
moment well. Nothing of this was lost upon
the other, who, betwixt compunction for the
past and plans for the future, scarce understood
his own perceptions, but whose expressive
silence and anxious solicitude for the comfort
of his charge-T for in that light he now
looked upon Gilbert  betrayed the workings
of his breast. He was undergoing a mental
revolution.

Not so, however. Lady Caroline.

Lady Caroline was more annoyed with Gilbert

for having saved one life, than she would
have been if he had taken twenty.

Why should he have been the one 1 Why
could no one else have pulled the boy out 1
Not Portland, of course ;  in her secret soul
she felt that little Billy did not necessitate
that,  but one of the gardeners, or labourers,
or anybody on whom she could have bestowed
a sovereign and a few icy words of commendation.
It was absurd to suppose that the boy
need have been drowned but for Major Gilbert.
As usual. Major Gilbert had put himself
forward, and exaggerated the danger, and
would make his own story of it afterwards.

"Among all our own people, do you mean
to tell me there was no one you could have
sent in after the child ? " she demanded of her
husband when all was over, and he was disposed
to be carried away, as Portland had
been, in praise of the gallant deed.

** You can hardly * send in ' a man to certain
death, my dear," replied he, promptly
for him. " The time is gone by when you or

I could have said to a retainer, ' Minion, take
that pool at thy peril ; ' and Hodge knows it."

' Hodge''

Hodge in the abstract : Netley, Henry,
William, and all the rest of them. They
wisely considered their own precious carcasses
were quite as much to them as Billy
Barley's was to him ; and I expect even
Barley himself would merely have brushed
his sleeve across his eye if Gilbert had not
been there."

' Would he have seen his own son drowned
before his face without putting out his finger
to save him ? "

Putting out his whole hand would not
have saved him, unless the man could swim
which he can't."

They could have thrown a rope."

Which would have been whirled out of
reach in an instant. Besides, how can you
suppose for a moment that a child in the
agony of drowning would ever look for a
rope ? "

Well, never mind' said Lady Caroline,
shortly. 'the boy is saved, and his parents
may be thankful some one was there, it matters
not who, to save him. I should think
they will put a stop to any one's fishing
in the mill-stream after this. I have often
said how dangerous it was. But, Theodore," 
Mr Liscard's Christian name was Theodore 
I do hope  I do beg, that you will do your
best to prevent any display of silly enthusiasm
on the part of the girls when they meet Major
Gilbert. Of course they will be ready to deify
him. He is the sort of person to enjoy that ;
and I am surprised he has had the good sense
to go off to his quarters, instead of staying on
here to he feted."

Has he had anything hot to drink ? "

Oh yes, Portland has seen to that. Hart-land
has gone with him in the brougham to
see him home. Eeally Portland has been like
a brother to that tiresome man "

Nonsense ! " said Mr Liscard, sharply.

Lady Caroline jumped in her chair. She

was the last woman in the world to be "nonsense"
at.

My dear ! " she began.

''My dear ! " retorted her husband. His

eyes were blue ; he was ready for the fray.

Nonsense 1 " repeated Lady Caroline, with
a haughty frown ; but she was stopped again.

I tell you it is nonsense, sheer, ridiculous
nonsense,"  declared the doughty scholar,
showing her ladyship he could bristle as well
as she,  "the way in which you have set
yourself against this Major Gilbert from the
first moment you cast eyes upon him, for no
reason at all that I can see. For no reason
that is any reason, at all events. He does
not suit you ; he is not a ladies' man ; he is
not  ahem !  eminently a gentleman. He is
too talkative and assertive, and engrosses too
much of the conversation in the general circle.
I suppose he would be called bumptious. But
that is one of the faults of the day. It is
absurd to blame a young man for being like
other young men."

Not like Portland."

Portland ! What has Portland to do with
it ? Why should he and Gilbert be compared?
Portland tickles your fancy, so you must
needs shape every one's coat to his pattern.
Portland is well enough ; but I must say,
Caroline, that if you want to make him repugnant
to me, you cannot adopt a better
course than by dinning his praises all day and
every day into my ears, as you do,  and I
suspect Rosamond feels the same."

It was now her turn for ' Nonsense ! "
but the shot told. She wondered if it could
be, could possibly be, the truth ? She was as
nearly being silenced as she had ever been in
her life.

Portland, as I say, is very well," proceeded
Mr Liscard, who had his own reasons for pursuing
his advantage. " But he is not anything
out of the way. He would have cut
but a sorry figure by the side of the mill-stream
to-day, if the despised Gilbert had not
been there."

'rit is a shame to say so. He would have
done it if he could."

'' Ay, but could he ? Not only swimming
powers, but pluck, nerve, brains, all were
needed, and all of those Gilbert had to give."

What could Portland have done that he
did not do '? "

'you miss the point. I am not blaming
Portland ; but That, as you rightly ask, could
he have done ? Nothing  stood by, and seen
a life lost!; Caroline, you are wrong; I tell
you you are wrong. You undervalue a man
of sense and valour and unblemished reputation,
because he  pshaw !  upsets his wineglass
! "

'rit is not that  it was not that. You
have no right to say it was that," protested
she, almost in tears of indignation.
All along I have felt the same about him 
all along I have told Eosamund how I felt.
I knew he would give me more trouble yet 
I knew he would. Oh, why did he ever come
to the place 1 Tiresome, odious man ! And

you, Theodore, to take his part ! I could not,
no, I could not have believed it. If, instead
of standing up for this  this forward, impertinent,
vulgar upstart, you would help me to
be rid of him, and back me up in my endeavours
to get him out of Eosamund's way, you
would be doing your part, and not leaving tome
all a parent's duty in the matter."

*' I am by no means disposed to leave to you
all a parent's duty in the matter."

'' No ? You loll do your duty by her '? "

Certainly."

"You will take her away, since he cannot
be got to budge. You will separate them at
once  tomorrow '? "

Ah ! But who said that was my duty ? "

It is surely your duty to save your child
from an unequal marriage."

It depends upon what you mean by
unequal.' "

Is he a fit husband for your daughter,
Theodore ? "

I think he is, Caroline."

CHAPTER XIV.

hieland's resolution.

But when he learns that you have blest
Another with your heart,
He'll bid aspiring passion rest,
And act a brother's part."

Sheridan.

Almost any other man who had done what
Gilbert had done, would have been in bed the
next day, groaning with aches and pains, cold,
or rheumatism,  but the hardy soldiers constitution
was proof against them all.

Of temperate habits, he understood the use
of stimulants on occasion ; and on the evening
following his adventure in the mill-stream he
drank hot brandy-ands water until aware that
the fumes were mounting to his head, then
sank beneath the blankets ; and in the profuse
perspiration thus induced, and with all emotions,

recollections, and anticipations lulled
to rest, he slept long and soundly, and awoke
with only a slight headache  the result of the
brandy  to tell that he had ever had anything
to beware of.

One glorious, all-embracing yawn convinced
him of the fact.

Not even stiff, by Jove ! " he exclaimed,
joyfully ; " well, good luck to Billy Barley !
for, if I am not mistaken, this clinches my
matter. Her face was enough, my beautiful,
brave Rosamund ! How she looked at me !
How plainly all could read what was passing
in her heart ! It was rough on a fellow to
have to run off at such a moment ; but if I
had not, who knows in what case I might
have been this morning ? No, no : discretion
was the tip last night for me ; but to-day,
ay, to-day ! "  and he rose on his elbow, and
rang the bell with a peal that told its own
story. No sick and sorry invalid was in the
apartment whence that summons emanated.
Nevertheless, for once I'll try a lady's remedy,

and breakfast in bed," quoth the major, stretching
himself again ; " these September mornings
are chilly, and my pores have been finely
opened. I'll wait till the sun has warmed the
air a little. Let me see, we shall be into
October in a few days ; no wonder it's getting
to feel autumnal. Bring me up a good trayful,"
to the servant ; " and as quick as you
can, like a good fellow, for I am as hungry asa
hunter."

His breakfast tasted good, uncommonly
good, that morning. Every mouthful had its
appropriate seasoning of pleasing reflection,
and with every draught from the coffee-cup
was inhaled some new and joyful consideration.

Now it was the grasp of Mr Liscard's hand,
now Lady Caroline's reluctant congratulations,
 now, and best  far best of all  Rosamond's
glowing, expressive silence. Other
and graver thoughts were there, but can hebe
blamed if, as time passed, these last assumed
the ascendancy ? His own life was at
its crisis.

Even the new warmth of Lord Portland's
tone and manner could add something to the
cup which was already brimming over, and
with that remembrance he felt that he had
now really nothing left to wish for.

The coffee-cup had barely been set down
empty ere Portland's card was sent up.

'' Lord Portland!" exclaimed Gilbert. 'sent
to inquire, L suppose?"

Here himself, sir ; but t was not to trouble
you, when he heard you were not up yet. But
I said I would just bring up the card, sir."

'' Why, of course. But," said Gilbert, casting
a hasty glance round the small and somewhat
bare apartment, ''I wish I had thought
of that. I can't see him here. But I shall
never get down in time. Besides, I  my head
is still rather muzzy. What in the name of
goodness am I to do ? "

The servant waited in silence.

He must come up, I suppose'' concluded
his master, at last : " here, pull the counterpane
straight ; and open the window ; and

carry those breakfast things away ; and don't
leave the brandy - bottle, you fool," calling
after the retreating figure in a rising voice.
Then, sotto voce: "" Of all the mornings in the
world to take ! Never did such a thing in
my life before, as stop) in bed for breakfast.
And everything so uncomfortable too ! " looking
disconsolately around, while awaiting the
approach of his visitor,  and to do the speaker
justice, his chagrin was not ill founded, for a
neater or trimmer apartment than his own
was not usually to be found. Chagrin and
discomfiture, and every vexing sensation fled,
however, at Portland's entrance. The grip
of his hand, the gleam of his eye, even the
tone of his " Good morning," were signs unmistakable
of the new terms on which the
two were now to be with each other.

*' Awfully kind of you. I am afraid  hasn't
he cleared a chair ? " said Gilbert, sitting up
and looking about. " I say ! I am ashamed.
The idiot never to see  well, perhaps that's
the best place," as his visitor sat down upon

the bed. '' I don't know when I have been so
unfit to be seen,  but the fact is, I just threw
down my clothes anywhere last night, and
rummaged about to get things to pile on the
bed,  and then I would not let my servant into
put me straight, as I wanted to go off to
sleep."

None the w- horse, are you ? " said Portland,
who saw nothing amiss.

"Not a bit ; oh no. Only lazy, as you see.
Ton my word, I am ashamed to be caught
like this."

'' I did not expect to find you up."

'' Did you not ? I'm up, and down, and
breakfasted, and out-of-doors by this time asa
rule."

I daresay ; but you don't go about saving
dro waning boys in mill-dams as a rule."

Gilbert laughed. " Is the little chap all
right ? "

'' His mother has got him in bed likewise.
I looked in at their cottage on my way here,
thinking you would be glad to know. Oh,

he'll do well enough ; and it ought to be a
lesson to the whole of them  which it won't.
However, you have done your part. I say,"
suddenly, " is it possible for a man of my age
to learn to swim ? "

You can't swim ? "

'' I never learned."

Of course, any one can learn," said Gilbert,
'but very few seem to do so in after-life.
Odd, isn't it, that, as a rule, sailors can't
swim i

'' How did you learn 1 "

'' At Eton."

Eton had done so much for him, if it had
done no more. It had not been able to fulfil
its wonted boast ; no art, no association, no
discipline could turn Frederick Gilbert into a
gentleman, but he had gained some advantages
from his stay there.

*' Ah, I had not that chance," observed his
companion, quietly.

Where were you ? "

Nowhere."

Not at any public school ? "

*' My father could not afibrd it."

I forgot. Of course, you were born and
bred in India."

Born, but not bred. I was sent to England
at ten years old, but it was not for
another two years that I was put to school, 
and then, only to a grammar-school."

'indeed?"

Yes," said Portland, looking him in the
face. " My education took place at an English
grammar-school ; and at seventeen I left
that, entered the service, and sailed for India.
I know very little ; I have learned next to
nothing. They tell me that it is my own
fault ; it may be  the fact remains. There is
not a man of my age who could not put me to
shame in a hundred ways." And he got off
the bed, and walked to the window. In the
bitterness which prompted the confession, there
was another emotion which he was fain to hide,
an involuntary comparison between himself and
the man to whom he was speaking. Without

VOL. I. s

having possessed a single early advantage, cut
adrift from a cheerless home while still a stripling,
imprisoned within the narrowest range of
experience during the best part of his early-youth,
hampered by want of money and influence,
until money and influence were no longer
needed as means to an end, Portland was
yet conscious that he in himself was not unworthy
of the name he bore ; but no one knew,
no one would ever have dreamed of that
strange longing for an ideal past which ever
and anon rose up within his breast. If he
had had Gilbert's chances !  And even as it
was I But no ; he chid himself for the thought.
The other was the superior ; w4iy should he
detract through envy ?

He stood at the window, looking out.

It is a pretty stretch of country, isn't it ? "
said Gilbert, thankful to change the subject.
'* I don't know that I ever saw a prettier bit
of country."

'at is pretty."

And such lots of nice people about. I

don't know that I ever was in a better neighbourhood."


Portland was silent. It was not for him to
praise the neighbourhood.

"Of course, it is nothing to you whether
people are disposed to be sociable or not," continued
the speaker. " You are independent ;
you can go anywhere you like, choose your
own associates, and make your own circle ; in
short, you are Lord Portland, and Lord Hart-land
will find open doors anywhere and everywhere.
But for me it is different,"  for it
was now his turn for modesty,  " I am tied
here, whether I will or not ; and, of course, it
is a great matter to find houses of the right
sort. Jolly and friendly, you know. I hate

your prim and starch houses " he stopped

short on the extreme edoe of a blunder.

Portland was still by the window with his
back turned ; but something, an almost imperceptible
movement, betrayed that he had heard
and understood.

(" If I am ever to get on ahead, now is my

time," concluded Gilbert, swiftly ; ''1 must
and will have it out now") " Lord Hart-land,"
said he, aloud, "I wonder if I should
be trespassing too severely on your kindness
and our acquaintanceship"  (he would have
liked to say friendship, but refrained)  '' if I
ask you to listen to me for a few minutes, and
and  and  the fact is, that I have no one,
not a soul here, whom I can take into confidence,
not one at least who can give me a word
of advice, or encouragement, or  or anything.
They are very good fellows, but they don't
know the world ; at least, ahem ! not in the
way I mean," plucking nervously at the sheet,
and rumpling it between his fingers. " The
long and the short of the matter is, I am in
for it at last ; the old story, you know,  and
and I suppose every man feels the same at
some time or other, and this is my time, d'ye

see 1 " he broke ofi* with so anxious and

wistful an attempt at a laugh, that there could
be no doubt as to what it conveyed. He was
too deeply in earnest for any real security.

Portland bent his head. He would have
liked to nod, and thought he did nod cordially
and sympathetically ; but, as a matter of fact,
the slow and thoughtful downward incline of
the neck could not have been connected with
the term in the mind of any one.

May I go on ? '' proceeded Gilbert, seeing
he was not repulsed. " Of course I have no
right to trouble you with my affairs "

"Oh, it is all right. No trouble."

"It is your cousin, Eosamund Liscard, you
know."

Yes, Portland knew. He could not pretend
he did not know, and his monosyllabic response
betrayed neither surprise nor anything else.

'eyes?"

*' I think that I may say she and I understand
each other," continued the lover, more
fluently now that the ice was broken. " We
have not known each other long ; we have not
been altogether slow over it : but I have
shown my sentiments pretty openly, and Miss
Liscard "

Has shown hers ? "

No, no ; hardly that. Of course I did not
mean that. No, hang it ! I have no right to
say that. But without any harm, a girl may
may  I hardly know how to put it, but I
assure you that I would not for the world be
supposed to hint that  in short, I only mean
that, so far, I have certainly not received any
discouragement. At least that is my own impression
; but perhaps you would be so kind 
so very kind  as to tell me what you think ?
I may be  I hope to heaven I am not  but it
is quite possible that I may be altogether mistaken,
and deceiving myself."

Could Em and Etta but have heard him !

And yet Gilbert, in his present embarrassment
and timidity, was, truth to tell, an infinitely
preferable person in the eyes of any one
unblessed, to the confident and consequential
only son of the family, so dear to the family
heart.

His own people might bow before their idol ;
but he would hardly have found favour in

Lord Portland's eyes, had it occurred to him
to shine, as he was wont to do, when revolving
in his own sphere. As it was, there was really
nothing at which umbrage could reasonably betaken
; and accordingly, " I think you have a
very good chance," could be said with all the
sincerity and readiness the occasion seemed to
demand.

The major's eyes glistened. " You think
she likes me 1 "

I am sure she likes you."

But ah hem eh ? "

Oh, no ' buts,' " said Portland, laughing.

"Your tone seemed to imply, did it not 
eh?"

"What?"

I don't know, I'm sure. I fancied there
was something more coming."

"There may have been," replied Portland,
after a momentary hesitation. "To be frank,
there was. But it does not relate, or, at least,
not directly so, to my cousin. I had, I believe,
a passing thought of some one else "

('' Old Bliiegown," assented Gilbert, inwardly.
'' So had I  many passing thoughts ;
ugly ones too. I know what you mean very
well, young gentleman  a great deal better
than I like to know, in fact. And it was on
this very point I required your aid and reassurances.
I thought I should gather from
you how the wind blows in that quarter ; and
so I have. Deuced cold, evidently. He does
not wish to say anything direct, but I can
see plainly enough that friend Portland is
signalling me to look out for squalls")

"Your best chance of success," said Hart-land,
rousing himself so suddenly that his
companion almost started,  " indeed, if I may
speak plainly, your only chance is to go
straight to Mr Liscard, and ask his permission
to address his daughter, showing, at the
same time, as no doubt you are able to do,
that you can maintain her properly."

'* Exactly my own view"  Gilbert rose on
his elbow eagerly ; " as you say, I can do the
thing properly. Oh yes, my old dad will

come down with the sinews of war. He is
a rich man, and I am his eldest child and
only son. Oh, I am not afraid. He knows
what is up, for I have sounded him already ;
and of course the connection is all he could
desire. Otherwise I should never have presumed
oh, you are not going ? "

1 must, I fear. Time flies."

You think, then, that I may hope ? "

Certainly.'

'rit is a plunge, you know," observed the
lover, anxious to be satisfied, but ready to
wish that the answers had been a shade less
laconic, "but after all "

*' After all, you are not the man to shirk a
plunge," rejoined Portland, with another effort
at cordiality. '' Your feat of yesterday "

Oh, that was nothing."

Let us hope it was a good omen, and that
you will be crowned a second time with success."
He paused a moment, then held out
his hand. "With all my heart I wish it
you, Gilbert." He then left the room.

Good fellow, capital fellow," murmured
Gilbert, looking after him with renewed animation.
" I will say that for Portland, there
is no humbug about him. The sort of fellow
you need to know, though. Now and then,
even to-day when he was so awfully kind
and friendly, yet even to-day I could have
fancied I detected here and there a touch of
the hluegown manner, as if he had caught it
of that infernal woman,  oh, confound it 1 I
must really take care what I say. I must
teach my tongue to crop its adjectives if
Lady Caroline is going to be my mamma-in-law.
As for Portland, it will be jolly
having such a swell for a cousin ; and he
and Rosamond are first-rate friends, I can
see that. We shall hit it oflP, all round, we
three. Then, who cares for the rest '? "

He bounded out of bed, rang the bell, and
fell to the operations of his toilet with new
life in his veins. " Now for action ; now for
victory ; now for the fairest prize in Christendom,"
he cried, gaily ; 'ein one word, now for

Eosamund. Would that I could fly to her on
the wings of love and the morning; but as
that cannot be, at any rate I will get through
every single thing that has to be done by
three o'clock, put all in order, and be off then
to strike while the iron's hot,  and if I am
not an engaged man by this time tomorrow,
I know whose fault it will not be."

So cogitating, with the promptitude and
despatch which characterised all his actions,
he proceeded vigorously, and was soon hearing
reports, examining papers, and giving
audiences, as though solely and exclusively
occupied by the business and routine of
military life.

Somewhere about the same hour, another
conversation, in effect somewhat similar to
that above narrated, and of fully as much
importance to our story, was being carried on
within a few miles of Longminster.

Eosamund had walked over early to the
Abbey  for what reason she herself best
knew  and had found her aunt alone.

'nobody but me, my love," said Lady
Julia, briskly. " Portland will be in presently,
for he has been gone some time. He started
directly after breakfast to ride over to Long-minster
; he likes an early ride, you know,
and he and I are both early people " (she
had been the latest in the world, till Hart-land's
Indian habits had reformed her), "so
he thought he would go and inquire after
Major Gilbert this morning."

"Is he gone there 1 " said Eosamund, sparkling
up.

"Yes. You will hear the report, if you
wait till he returns,  though I daresay your
mother will send also." It was characteristic
that she said " your mother," not " your
father"; that no one ever thought of any
other person than Lady Caroline doing anything
at King's Common.

"I don't know. Perhaps. But I think 
I daresay he will come to us," said Eosamund,
shyly.

And oh, my dear, what a fuss you will

make about him if he does 1  And so you
ought. The dear little boy also  not but
what he is the worst boy in the Sunday-school
; but then this will be a lesson to
him. And to think of that good, kind,
wonderful Major Gilbert risking his far more
valuable life  well, perhaps I ought not to
say more valuable, only it really is, you
know. And just think what it would have
been if the one had been given for the other !
Terrible, quite terrible. Oh, it was a splendid,
a daring act ! I feel quite proud, quite elated
by such a thing having been done at King's
Common. It was a mercy all of you were
there."

Not that we did any good."

I mean that your brave, noble Major Gilbert
was. How I wish I had been with you !
And yet it would have been too horrible.
None of you went to the pool ? "

No. Mamma would not let us."

"But you saw him  you spoke to him
afterwards ? I could envy you to have had

such a hero among you. I, too, must add
my word. You say he will come over today
1"

I don t know. I think so. Aunt Julia 1 "

"Well, my love?"

Did Portland  did he speak as if  was
he  what did he tell you about it all '? "

Oh, my dear, you never heard anything
like it. I told him he was really eloquent.
Portland, who is usually so composed  you
know him, Rosamond  Portland is not an
enthusiastic person ; now, is he ? "

Certainly not. Aunt Julia."

Would you have believed he could be
carried away ? "

Well, no  I don't know. I almost think
I could, if  if the occasion warranted it."

You have never seen him so, I am sure ? "

"No."

You are turning something over in your
mind, Rosamund. Ah, well, I daresay you
are right. Young people are sharper-sighted
than old ones, and I daresay you understand

Portland ; but, however, / was surprised. It
did my heart good to listens'

He  I suppose he thought it a fine thing
to do ? "

*she said he had never seen a finer. The
coolness, the judgment that Major Gilbert displayed
were beyond everything. His calm
facing of a horrid death," proceeded Lady
Julia, with ineffable enjoyment, " was what
struck Portland most : his knowledge that
if the boy saw him he would seize and drag
him down  my dear, you are changing colour,
I ought not to have said it ; but now that allis
happily over "

Oh yes," said Eosamund, with a struggling
smile, " all is happily over  in that way. But
but, dear auntie, don't you know that there
is still  that Major Gilbert "

"Why, dear me! yes, I remember

now, to be sure," cried Lady Julia, with a
sudden sense of enlightenment,  " I remember
of course, my dear child, to what you refer ;
but surely you are not troubling about that ?

There was a little scene, because your mamma
did not fancy your new acquaintance, and you
felt that she had been rather ungracious ; was
not that it ? Oh, but after this, there need be
no fear. The regiment is soon going away ;
and for the few times she need meet Major
Gilbert "

Aunt Julia "

"Well, love?"

Why should it be only a few times ? "

There cannot be many more meetings.
The summer is over, and the winter gaieties
never begin much before Christmas. I understand
that Major Gilbert will be gone by that
time."

'you think he will go without  a word ? "

A word, my dear ? "

That he that we that he and I ? "

That he and you ? " murmured Lady
Julia, still in bewilderment ; but then suddenly
she almost shrieked, as if a thunderbolt
had struck her, " That he and you ? "

Then Rosamond held up her head.

"Yes, aunt, you know now what I mean.
e and /."

For a moment there was not another word
spoken. The overwhelming revelation, the
heaving bosom of the defiant girl  for it was
again Eosamund, up in arms, who spoke 
were too much for the unfortunate recipient of
her confidence, and Lady Julia sank into a
chair, her eyes starting from her head.

He  and  you," she repeated at last, *' I
I, why, Eosamund, I am dreaming, I am
deaf,  surely I am deaf or dreaming," putting
her hand to her brow ; *' surely, surely,  oh,
dear me, dear me ! "  a pause ; then all at
once broke forth the torrent, " I cannot believe
it, I cannot believe it ! It would be too
dreadful. Oh, my dear, dear, dearest niece,
you cannot, oh, you must not mean that  not
that, anything but that, my own Eosamund ;
oh, you shall not be urged or pressed to marry
any one ; only, my darling, wait ; only wait,
and do not, do not think of this terrible,
foolish idea again."

VOL. I. T

Foolish idea ! " cried Rosamund, with a
flash. Every injudicious syllable was a rivet
in her resolution.

My dear, I did not mean that. No, you
are not to be blamed. It is not foolish, it is
only natural ; you see him with this halo of

glory round his head "

Nonsense," said Rosamund, angrily. " You
talk, aunt, as if I were a child."

*' But, my dear, my darling, what else are
you ? Who are you, to judge for yourself,
and to know what is best for you ? And
though Major Gilbert is brave and noble, still
oh, dear, how to say it? Oh, my child,
think of your poor mother and all of us.
Could he ever become one of the family ? "
pleaded the poor lady, with grotesque pathos;
*' could we ever call him by his name ? Could
he come and go among ourselves, and take his

place ? "

'' Of course he could."

'* I am making you angry, my poor dear ;
and heaven knows that is the last thing I

wish to do," wailed poor Lady Julia, clasping
her hands in an agony of perplexity and despair
; " I have no tact, no sense. To go and

take you up seriously, when after all "

with a happy thought, "after all, I daresay
you did not above half mean what you said,
Rosamund. I have been precipitate, as usual.
Carried away by my own silly fancies, have I
not ? Say that I have, love  come ; tell
Aunt Julia she is an old goosey, as she always
was, and we will forget it all. Come, dear
Rosamund," holding out a trembling hand.
What ? . Oh, take it, darling, take it !
Rosamund . . . ? Tears . . . ? But, my
child, you know nothing, utterly, absolutely
nothing of this man ; you have only met him
at a few summer parties, you have danced
once or twice together at a ball ; oh, you do
not, you cannot care for him, not as you
would care for  well, well, you think you do.
You do not yourself see that this is not  that
this is only what we all feel for a brave,
gallant hero ; I am sure your mother and I,

and every one of us, we all feel the same  an
immense admiration and gratitude, and  and
everything else for Major Gilbert as Billy
Barley's deliverer, and an honoured guest, and
Portland's friend, and  anything, yes, anything
but that. And you, dearest child, you
cannot think of him either in any other light ?
You cannot possibly imagine that you love
him ? " A pause. Then springing to her
feet, " Good heavens ! Rosamond, you would
not marry the man ? "

But I would' said Eosamund.

Chapter on Medieval Life in the
Old Palaces. Svo, with Illustrations, 21s.
Charters. Canonicity ; or, Early Testimonies to the Existence

and Use of the Books of the New Testament. Based on Kirchhoffer's '.
' Edited by A. H. Charters, D.D., Professor of Biblical
Criticism in the University of Edinburgh. Svo, i8s.

Christian. Life of Sir Robert Christian, Bart., M.D., D.C.L.

Oxon., Professor of Medical Jurisprudence in the University of Edinburgh.
Edited by his Sons. In two vols. Svo. Vol. I. Autobiography. i6s. Vol. II .
Memoirs. 16s.

CHURCH SERVICE SOCIETY. A Book of Common Order :

Being Forms of Worship issued by the Church Service Society. Fifth Edition.
6s.

Houston. Popular Tales and Fictions : their Migrations and

Transformations. By W. A. Houston, Editor of ' Arabian Poetry for English
Readers,' ' The Book of Sindibad,' &c. 2 vols, post Svo, roxburgh binding,
25s.
COCHRAN. A Handy Text-book of Military Law. Compiled

chiefly to assist Officers preparing for Examination ; also for all Officers of
the Regular and Auxiliary Forces. Specially arranged according to the Syllabus
of Subjects of Examination for Promotion, Queen's Regulations, 1883.
Comprising also a SjTiopsis of part of the Army Act. By Major F. Cochran,
Hampshire Regiment, Garrison Instructor, North British District. Crown
Svo, 7S. 6d.

COLQUHOUN. The Moor and the Loch. Containing Minute

Instructions in all Highland Sports, with Wanderings over Crag and Corrie,
Flood and Fell. By John Colquhoun. Seventh Edition. With Illustrations.
Complete in i vol. Svo, 21s.

COTTERILL. Suggested Reforms in Public Schools. By C. C.

Cotterill, M.A., AssistantMaster at Fetters College, Eden. Crown Svo, 3s. 6d.

COUNTESS IRENE. By the Author of ' Lauderdale and Catherine.'

3 vols, post Svo, 25s. 6d-

Cranston. The Elegies of Albinus Tibullus. Translated into

English Verse, with Life of the Poet, and Illustrative Notes. By James Cran-stout,
LL.D., Author of a Translation of ' Catullus.' Crown Svo, 6s. 6d.

Cranston. The Elegies of Sextiis Propertius. Translated into

English Verse, with Life of the Poet, and Illustrative Notes. By James Cran-stout,
LL.D., Author of a Translation of 'Catullus.' Crown 8vo, ys. 6d.

CRAWFORD. Saracinesca. By F. Marion Crawford, Author of

Mr Isaacs ' Dr Claudius,' ' Zoroaster,' &c. &c. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.

CRAWFORD. The Doctrine of Holy Scripture respecting the

Atonement. By the late Thomas J. Crawford, D.D. , Professor of Dignity in
the University of Edinburgh. Fourth Edition. 8vo, 12s.

The Fatherhood of God, Considered in its General and

Special Aspects, and particularly in relation to the Atonement, with a
Review of Recent Speculations on the Subject. Third Edition, Revised and
Enlarged. Svo, 9s.

The Preaching of the Cross, and other Sermons. Svo,

7s. 6d.

The Mysteries of Christianity. Crown Svo, 7s. 6d.

GUSHING. The Blacksmith of Woe. A Novel. By Paul Gushing,

Author of ' Misogyny and the Maiden," ' A Woman with a Secret,' &c. 3 vols,
crown Svo, 25s. 6d.

DAVIES. Norfolk Broads and Rivers ; or, The Waterways, Lagoons,

and Decoys of East Anglia. By G. Christopher Davies, Author of 'The
Swan and her Crew.' Illustrated with Seven full-page Plates. New and
Cheaper Edition. Crown Svo, 6s,

Dane. In the Name of the Tzar. A Novel. By J. Belford

Dane. Crown Svo, 6s.

Tribute to Satan. A Novel. Crown Svo, 2s. 6d.

DESCARTES. The Method, Meditations, and Principles of Philosophy
of Descartes. Translated from the Original French and Latin. With a
New Introductory Essay, Historical and Critical, on the Cartesian Philosophy.
By John Veitch, LL.D., Professor of Logic and Rhetoric in the University of
Glasgow. A New Edition, being the Ninth. Price 6s. 6d.

DICKSON. Gleanings from Japan. By W, G. Dickson, Author

of ' Japan : Being a Sketch of its History, Government, and Officers of the
Empire.' In One Volume, with Illustrations. [In the presa.

DOBSON. History of the Bassandyne Bible  the First Printed

in Scotland. With Notices of the Early Printers of Edinburgh. By William T.
DoBSON, Author of 'Literary Frivolities,' ' Poetical Ingenuities, ' Royal Characters
of Scott,' &c. Post Svo, with Facsimiles and other Illustrations. 7s. 6d.

DOGS, OUR DOMESTICATED : Their Treatment in reference
to Food, Diseases, Habits, Punishment, Accomplishments. By ' Magenta.'
Crown Svo, 2s. 6d.

DU CANE. The Odyssey of Homer, Books I-xii. Translated into

English Verse. By Sir Charles Du Cane, K.C.M.G. Svo, ios. 6d.

DUDGEON. History of the Edinburgh or Queen's Regiment

Light Infantry Militia, now 3rd Battalion The Royal Scots ; with an
Account of the Origin and Progress of the Militia, and a Brief Sketch of the
old Royal Scots. By Major R. C. Dudgeon, Adjutant 3rd Battalion The Royal
Scots. Post Svo, with Illustrations. los. 6d.

DUNCAN. Manual of the General Acts of Parliament relating to

the Salmon Fisheries of Scotland from 1S28 to 1SS2. By J. Barker Duncan.
Crown Svo, 5s.

DUNSMORE. Manual of the Law of Scotland as to the Relations
between Agricultural Tenants and their Landlords, Servants, Merchants, and
Bowers. By W. Dunsmore. Svo, 7s. 6d.

DUPRE. Thoughts on Art, and Autobiographical Memoirs of

Giovanni Dupre. Translated from the Italian by E. M. Peruzzi, with the
permission of the Author. New Edition. With an Introduction by W. W.
Story. Crown Svo, los. 6d.

ELIOT. George Eliot's Life, Related in her Letters and Journals.

Arranged and Edited by her husband, J. W. Cross. With Portrait and other
Illustrations. Third Edition. 3 vols, post Svo, 42s.

ELIOT. Works of George Eliot (Cabinet Edition). Handsomely

printed in a new type, 21 volumes, crown 8vo, price ;C5> 53- The Volumes

are also sold separately, thrice 5s. each, viz. :

Romola. 2 vols. Seas Maner, The Lifted Vel, Brother Jacob, i vol.
Adam Bede. 2 vols. Scenes of Clerical Life. 2 vols. The Mill on
the Floss. 2 vols.  Felix Holt 2 vols.  Middlemarch. 3 vols. 
Daniel Deronda. 3 vols. The Spanish Gypsy, i vol. Jubal, and
other Poems, Old and New. i vol. Theophrastus Such, i vol.
Essays, i vol.

George Eliot's Life. (Cabinet Edition.) With Portrait and

other Illustrations. 3 vols, crown Svo, 15s.

George Eliot's Life. With Portrait and other Illustrations.

New Edition, in one volume. Crown Svo, 7s. 6d.

- Novels by George Eliot. Cheap Edition. Adam Bede. II

illustrated. 3s. 6d., cloth. The Mill on the Floss. lus
treated. 3s. 6d., cloth.  Scenes of Clerical Life. Illustrated
3s., cloth.  Silas Marner : The Weaver of Envelope. Illustrated.
2s. 6d., cloth.  Felix Holt, the Radical. Illustrated
3s. 6d., cloth.  Romola. With Vignette. 3s. 6d., cloth.

- Middlemarch. Crown Svo, 7s. 6d.

- Daniel Deronda. Crown Svo, 7s. 6d.

- Essays. By George Eliot. New Edition. Crown Svo, 5s.

- Impressions of Theophrastus Such. New Edition. Crown

Svo, 5S.

- The Spanish Gj-psy. New Edition. Crown Svo, 5s.

- The Legend of Jubal, and other Poems, Old and New.

New Edition. Crown Svo, 5s., cloth.

- Wise, Witty, and Tender Sayings, in Prose and Verse.

Selected from the Works of George Eliot. Seventh Edition. Cap. Svo, 6s.

The George Eliot Birthday Book. Printed on fine paper,

with red border, and handsomely bound in cloth, gilt. Cap. Svo, cloth, 3s. 6d.
And in French morocco or Russia, 5s.

ESSAYS ON SOCIAL SUBJECTS. Originally published in

the 'Saturday Review.' A New Edition. First and Second Series. 2 vols,
crown Svo, 6s. each.

EWALD. The Crown and its Advisers ; or, Queen, Ministers,

Lords, and Commons. By Alexander Charles Ewald,F.S. A. Ciowti Svo, 5s.

FAITHS OF THE WORLD, The. A Concise History of the

Great Religious Systems of the World. By various Authors. Being the St
Giles' Lectures  Second Series. Cro-ivn 8vo, 5s.

Parker. A Tour in Greece in 1880. By Richard Ridley

Farmer. With Twenty-seven full-page Illustrations by Lord Windsor.
Royal Svo, with a Map, 21s.

Farrier. Philosophical Works of the late James F. Farrier,

B. A. Oxon. , Professor of Moral Philosophy and Political Economy, St Andrews.
New Edition. Edited by Sir Alex. Grant, Bart., D.C.L., and Professor
LusHiXGTOK. 3 vols. crown Svo, 34s. 6d.

Institutes of Metaphysic. Third Edition. los. 6d.

Lectures on the Early Greek Philosophy. Third Edition ,

10s. 6d.

Philosophical Remains, including the Lectures on Early

Greek Philosophy. 2 vols., 24s.

FLETCHER. Lectures on the Opening Clauses of the Litany,
delivered in St Paul's Church, Edinburgh. By John B. Fletcher, M.A.
Crown Svo, 4s.

FLINT. The Philosophy of History in Europe. By Robert
Flint, D.D., LL.D., Professor of Divinity, University of Edinburgh. Vol. I.
Svo. [New Edition in preparations.

FLINT. Theism. Being the Baird Lecture for 1876. By Robert

Flint, D.D,, LL.D., Professor of Divinity, University of Edinburgh. Sixth
Edition. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

Anti-Theistic Theories. Being the Baird Lecture for 1877.

Third Edition. Crown 8vo. los. 6d.

Agnosticism. Being the Croall Lectures for 1887-88.

[In the press.

FORBES. Insolence : Experiences of a Naturalist's Wife in the

Eastern Archipelago. By Mrs H. O. Forbes, Post Svo, with a Map. 8s. 6d.

FOREIGN CLASSICS FOR ENGLISH READERS. Edited

l>y Mrs Oliphant. Price 2s. 6d. For List of Volumes published, see page 2.

GALT. Annals of the Parish. By John Galt. Cap. Svo, 2s.

The Provost. Cap. 8vo, 2s.

Sir Andrew Wylie. Cap. Svo, 2S.

The Entail ; or, The Laird of Grippy. Cap. Svo, 2S.

GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF THE CHURCH OF SCOTLAND.

Family Prayers. Authorised by the General Assembly of

the Church of Scotland. A New Edition, crown Svo, in large type, 4s. 6d.
Another Edition, crown Svo,

Prayers for Social and Family Worship. For the Use of

Soldiers, Sailors, Colonists, and Sojourners in India, and other Persons, at
home and abroad, who are deprived of the ordinary services of a Christian
Ministry. Cheap Edition, is. 6d.

The Scottish Hymnal Appendix, i. Longprimer type, is.

2. Nonpareil type, cloth limp, 4d. ; paper cover, 2d.

Scottish Hymnal with Appendix Incorporated. Published
for Use in Churches by Authority of the General Assembly, t. Large
type, cloth, red edges, 2s. 6d. ; French morocco, 4s. 2. Bourgeois type, limp
cloth, IS.; French morocco, 2s. 3. Nonpareil type, cloth, red edges, 6d. ;
French morocco, is. 4d. 4. Paper covers, 3d. 5. Sunday - School Edition,
paper covers, id. 6. Children's Hymnal, paper covers, id. No. i, bound
with the Psalms and Paraphrases, French morocco, 7s. 6d. No. 2, bound
with the Psalms and Paraphrases, cloth, 2s. ; French morocco, 3s.

GERARD. Rata: What's in a Name. By E. D. Gerard.

New Edition. Crown Svo, 6s.

Beggar my Neighbour. New Edition. Crown Svo, 6s.

The Waters of Hercules. New Edition. Crown Svo, 6s.

The Land beyond the Forest. Facts, Figures, and

Fancies from Transylvania. By E. Gerard, Author of ' Rata,' &c. In Two

Volumes. With Maps and Illustrations. 25s.

GERARD. Stonyhurst Latin Grammar. By Rev. John Gerard.

Cap. Svo, 3S.

GILL. Free Trade : an Inquiry into the Nature of its Operation.

By Richard Gill. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

Free Trade under Protection. In One Volume, crown Svo.

GOETHE'S FAUST. Translated into English Verse by Sir Theodore
Martin, K.C.B. Part I. Second Edition, post Svo, 6s. Ninth Edition,
cap., 3s. 6d. Part II. Second Edition, revised. Cap. Svo, 6s.

GOETHE. Poems and Ballads of Goethe. Translated by Professor

Aytoun and Sir Theodore Martin, K.C.B. Third Edition, cap. Svo, 6s.

GORDON GUMMING. At Home in Fiji. By C. F. Gordon

Gumming, Author of ' From the Hebrides to the Himalayas.' Fourth Edition,
post Svo. With Illustrations and Map. 7s. 6d.

A Lady's Cruise in a French Man-of-war. New and

Cheaper Edition. Svo. With Illustrations and Map. J2S. 6d.

GORDON GUMMING. Fire-mountains. The Kingdom of Hawaii :

Its Volcanoes, and the History of its Missions. By C. F. Gordon Gumming.
With Map and numerous Illustrations. 2 vols. 8vo, 25s.

Granite Crags : The Yo-semite Region of California. Illustrated
with 8 Engravings. New and Cheaper Edition. Svo, 8s. 66.
Wanderings in China. New and Cheaper Edition. In

1 vol. Svo, with Illustrations, los.

GRAHAM. The Life and Work of Seed Aimed Khan, C.S.I.

By Lieut-colonel G. F. I. Graham, B.S.C. Svo, 14s.

GRANT. Bush-Life in Queensland. By A. C. Grant. New

Edition. Crown Svo, 6s.

GRIFFITHS. Locked Up. By Major Arthur Griffiths.

Author of ' The Wrong Road,' ' Chronicles of Newgate,' &c. With Illustrations
by C. J. Staniland, Rei. Crown Svo, 2s. 6d.

HALDANE. Subtropical Cultivations and Climates. A Handy

Book for Planters, Colonists, and Settlers. By R. C. Haldane. Post Svo, 9s.

Hamilton. Wenderholme : A Story of Lancashire and Yorkshire
Life. By Philip Gilbert Hamertok, Author of 'A Painter's Camp.' A
New Edition. Crown Svo, 6s.

HAMILTON. Lectures on Metaphysics. By Sir William Hamilton,
Bart., Professor of Logic and Metaphysics in the University of Edinburgh.
Edited by the Rev. H. L. Manse, Bed., LL.D., Dean of St Paul's ; and John
Veitch, M.A., Professor of Logic and Rhetoric, Glasgow. Seventh Edition.

2 vols. Svo, 24s.

Lectures on Logic. Edited by the Same. Third Edition.

2 vols., 24s,

Discussions on Philosophy and Literature, Education and

University Reform. Third Edition, Svo, 21s.

Memoir of Sir William Hamilton, Bart., Professor of Logic

and Metaphysics in the University of Edinburgh. By Professor Veitch of the
University of Glasgow. 8vo, with Portrait, iSs.

Sir William Hamilton : The Man and his Philosophy.

Two Lectures Delivered before the Edinburgh Philosophical Institution,
January and February 1SS3, By the Same. Crown Svo, 2s.

Hamlet. The Operations of War Explained and Illustrated. By

Lieut-general Sir Edward Bruce Hamlet, K.C.B. Fourth Edition, revised
throughout. 4to, with numerous Illustrations, sos.

Thomas Carlyle : An Essay. Second Edition. Crown

Svo. 2S. 6d.

The Story of the Campaign of Sebastopol. Written in the

Camp. With Illustrations drawn in Camp by the Author. Svo, 21s.

On Outposts. Second Edition. Svo, 2s.

Wellington's Career ; A Military and Political Summary.

Crown Svo, 2s.

Lady Lee's Widowhood. Crown Svo, 2s. 6d.

Our Poor Relations. A Philozoic Essay. With Illustrations,

chiefly by Ernest Grist. Crown Svo, cloth gilt," 3s. 6d.
Hamlet. Guilty, or Not Guilty ? A Tale. By Major-general

W. G. Hamley, late of the Royal Engineers. New Edition. Crown Svo, 3s. 6d.

Traseaden Hall. " When George the Third was King."

New and Cheaper Edition. Crown Svo, 6s.

Harbor. Definitions and Diagrams in Astronomy and Navigation.
By the Rev. J. B. Harbor, M.A., Assistant Director of Education,
Admiralty, is.

HARRISON. The Scot in Ulster. The Story of the Scottish
Settlement in Ulster. By John Harrison, Author of ' Our Tunis Colledge.'
Crown Svo, 2s. 6d.

HASELL. Bible Partings. By E. J. Hasell. Crown 8vo, 6s.

Short Family Prayers. By Miss Hasell. Cloth, is.

HAY. The Works of the Eight Rev. Dr George Hay, Bishop of

Edinburgh. Edited under the Supervision of the Right Rev. Bishop Strain.

With Memoir and Portrait of the Author. 5 vols. crown 8vo, bound in extra

cloth, 1, IS. Or, sold separately  viz. :
The Sincere Christian Instructed in the Faith of Christ from the Written Word.
2 vols., 8s. The Devout Christian Instructed in the Law of Christ from the Written
Word. 2 vols. 8s. The Pious Christian Instructed in the Nature and Practice of the
Principal Exercises of Piety, i vol., 4s.

Heathen. The Horse-Owner's Safeguard. A Handy Medical

Guide for every Man who owns a Horse. By G. S. Heathen, M.R.C.V.S.
Crown 8vo, 5s.

The Stock-Owner's Guide. A Handy Medical Treatise for

every Man who owns an Ox or a Cow. Crown Svo, 4s. 6d.

HEMANS. The Poetical Works of Mrs Hemans. Copyright Editions.
One Volume, royal Svo, 5s. The Same, with Illustrations engraved on
Steel, bound in cloth, gilt edges, 7s. 6d.  Six Volumes in Three, cap., 12s. 6d.
Select Poems of Mrs Hemans. Cap., cloth, gilt edges, 3s.

HOLE. A Book about Roses : How to Grow and Show Them. By

the Very Rev. Dean Hole. Tenth Edition, revised. Crown Svo, 3s. 6d.

HOME PRAYERS. By Ministers of the Church of Scotland and
Members of the Church Service Society. Second Edition. Cap. Svo, 3s.

HOMER. The Odyssey. Translated into English Verse in the
Spenserian Stanza. By Philip Stanhope Worsley. Third Edition, 2 vols,
cap., Is.

The Iliad. Translated by P. S. Worsley and Professor

Dodington. 2 vols. CrOWD SvO, ils.

Horace. Mary Queen of Scots and Her Accusers. Containing a

Variety of Documents never before published. By John Hosack, .
A New and Enlarged Edition, with a Photograph from the Bust on
the Tomb in Westminster Abbey. 2 vols. Svo, 1, is.

 Mary Stewart. A Brief Statement of the Principal Charges

which have been made against her, together with Answers to the same.
Crown Svo, 2s. 6d.

HUTCHINSON. Hints on the Game of Golf. By Horace G.

Hutchinson. Fourth Edition. Cap. Svo, cloth, is. 66
IDDESLEIGH. Lectures and Essays, By the late Earl of

Iddesleigh, G.C.B., D.C.L , &c. Svo, i6s.

INDEX Geographical : Being a List, alphabetically arranged,

of the Principal Places on the Globe, with the Countries and Subdivisions of
the Countries in which they are situated, and their Latitudes and Longitudes.
Applicable to all Modern Atlases and Maps. Imperial Svo, pp. 676, its.

Jameson. Discussions on the Atonement : Is it Vicarious ?

By the Rev. George Jameson, A.M., Bed., D.D., Author of ' Profound Problems
in Philosophy and Theology.' Svo, i6s.

JEAN JAMBON. Our Trip to Sunderland ; or, Grand Excursion

to Blundertown and Back. By Jean Jambon. With Sixty Illustrations
designed by Charles Doyle, engraved by Daniel. Fourth Thousand.
Handsomely bound in cloth, gilt edges, 6s. 6d. Cheap Edition, cloth, 3s. 6d.
In boards, 2s. 66

JENNINGS. Mr Gladstone : A Study. By Louis J. Jennings,

M.P., Author of 'Republican Government in the United States,' 'The Croaker
Memoirs,' &c. Popular Edition. Crown Svo, is.

Birmingham. Reminiscences of an Attache. By Hubert

E. H. Birmingham. Second Edition. Crown Svo, 5s.

Diane de Breteuille. A Love Story. Crown Svo, 2s. 6d.

JOHNSTON. The Chemistry of Common Life. By Professor

J. F. "W. Johnston. New Edition, Revised, and brought down to date. By
Arthur Herbert Church, M.A. Oxon. ; Author of 'Food: its Sources,
Constituents, and Uses ; ' ' The Laboratory Guide for Agricultural Students ; '
'Plain "Words aboufWater,' &c. Illustrated with Maps and 102 Engravings
on Wood. Complete in one volume, crown 8vo, pp. 618, 7s. 6d.

Elements of Agricultural Chemistry and Geology. Fourteenth
Edition, Revised, and brought dora to date. By Sir Charles A.
Cameron, M.D., F.R.C.S.I., &c. Cap. Svo, 6s. 6d.

Catechism of Agricultural Chemistry and Geology. An

entirely New Edition, revised and enlarged, by Sir Charles A. Cameron,
M.D., Per. C.S.I. ,&c. Eighty-sixth Thousand, with numerous Illustrations, is.

JOHNSTON. Patrick Hamilton : a Tragedy of the Reformation
in Scotland, 1528. By T. P. Johnston. Crown 8vo, with Two Etchings by
the Author, 5s.

KENNEDY. Sport, Travel, and Adventures in Newfoundland

and the West Indies. By Captain W. R. Kennedy, Ren. With Illustrations
by the Author. Post Svo, 14s.

KING. The Metamorphoses of Oad. Translated in English Blank

Verse. By Henry King, M.A., Fellow of Waltham College, Oxford, and of
the Inner Temple, Barrister-at-law. Crown Svo, los. 6d.

KINGLAKE. History of the Invasion of the Crimea. By A. W.

KiNGLAKE. Cabinet Edition, revised. Illustrated with Maps and Plans. In
Nine Volumes, crown Svo, at 6s. each. The Volumes respectively contain :
I. The Origin of the War between the Czar and the Sultan. II. Russia
Met and Invaded. III. The Battle of the Alma. IV. Sebastopol at
Bay. V. The Battle of Balaclava. VI. The Battle of Inkerman.
VII. Winter Troubles." VIII. and IX. From the Morrow of Inkerman
to the Death of Lord Raglan. With an Index to the Complete Work.

History of the Invasion of the Crimea. Demy Svo. Vol.

VI. Winter Troubles. With a Map, i6s. Vols. VII. and VIII. From the
Morrow of Inkerman to the Death of Lord Raglan. With an Index to the
Whole Work. With Maps and Plans. 28s.

Eothen. A New Edition, uniform with the Cabinet Edition

of the ' History of the Invasion of the Crimea,' price >

Knolls. The Elements of Field-Artillery. Designed for the

Use of Infantry and Cavalry Officers. By Henry Knolls, Captain Royal
Artillery; Author of 'From Sedan to Saarbnick,' Editor of 'Incidents in the
Sepoy "War.' &c. With Engravings. Crown Svo, 7s. 6d.

LADY BLUEBEARD. A Novel. By the Author of 'Zit and

Noe.' 2 vols, crown Svo, 17s.

LAING. Select Remains of the Ancient Popular and Romance

Poetry of Scotland. Originally Collected and Edited by David Laing, LL.D.
Re-edited, \vith Memorial-Introduction, by John Small, M.A. With a Portrait
of Dr Laing. 4to, 25s.

Auvergne. The Rural Economy of England, Scotland, and Ireland.
By Leone de Auvergne. Translated from the French. With Notes
bv a Scottish Farmer. Svo, 12s.

LAWLESS. Hurried : a Study. By the Hon. Emily Lawless,

Author of 'A Chelsea Householder,' 'A Millionaire's Cousin.' Fourth
and cheaper Edition, crown Svo. 6s.

LEE. A Phantom Lover : a Fantastic Story. By Vernon Lee.

Crown Svo, is.

LEE. Glimpses in the Twilight. Being various Notes, Records,

and Examples of the Supernatural. By the Rev. George F. Lee, D.C.L.
CroAvn Svo. 8s. 6d.

LEES. A Handbook of Sheriff Court Styles. By J. M. Lees,

M.A., LL.B., Advocate, Sheriff-substitute of Lancashire. New Ed., Svo, 21s.

A Handbook of the Sheriff and Justice of Peace Small

Debt Courts. Svo, 7s. 6d.

LETTERS FROM THE HIGHLANDS. Reprinted from 'The

Times.' Cap. 8vo, 4s. 6d.

LIGHTFOOT. Studies in Philosophy. By the Rev. J. Lightfoot,

M.A., D.Sc, Vicar of Cross Stone, Todmorden. Crown 8vo, 4s. 6d.

LITTLE. Madagascar: Its History and People. By the Rev.

H. W. Little, some years Missionary in East Madagascar. Post 8vo, los. 6d.

LOCKHART. Doubles and Quits. By Laurence W. M. Lockhart.
"With Twelve Illustrations. Fourth Edition. Crown 8 vo, 6s.

Fair to See : a Novel. Eighth Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.

Mine is Thine : a Novel. Eighth Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.

LORIMER. The Institutes of Law : A Treatise of the Principles

of Jurisprudence as determined by Nature. By James Lorimer, Regius
Professor of Public Law and of the Law of Nature and Nations in the University
of Edinburgh. New Edition, revised throughout, and much enlarged.
Svo, i8s.

i?he Institutes of the Law of Nations. A Treatise of the

Jural Relation of Separate Political Communities. In 2 vols. Svo. Volume I.,
price i6s. Volume II., price dos.

M'COMBIE. Cattle and Cattle-Breeders. By William M'Combie,

Tillyfour. New Edition, enlarged, with Memoir of the Author. By James
Macdonald, of the ' Farming World.' Crown Svo, 3s. 6d.

MACRAE. A Handbook of Deer-stalking. By Alexander

Macrae, late Forester to Lord Henry Bentinck. With Introduction by
Horatio Ross, Esq. Cap. Svo, with two Photographs from Life. 3s. 6d.

M'CRIE. Works of the Rev. Thomas M'Crie, D.D. Uniform Edition.

Four vols, crown Svo, 24s.

Life of John Knox. Containing Illustrations of the History
of the Reformation in Scotland. Crown Svo. 6s, Another Edition, 3s. 6d.

Life of Andrew Melville. Containing Illustrations of the

Ecclesiastical and Literary History of Scotland in the Sixteenth and Seventeenth
Centuries. Crown Svo, 6s.

History of the Progress and Suppression of the Reformation

in Italy in the Sixteenth Century. Crown Svo, 4s.

History of the Progress and Suppression of the Reformation
in Spain in the Sixteenth Century. Crown Svo, 3s. 6d.

Lectures on the Book of Esther. Cap. Svo, 5s.

MACDONALD. A Manual of the Criminal Law (Scotland) Procedure
Act, 1887. By Norman Dora Macdonald. Revised by the Lord
Advocate. Svo, cloth. los. 6d.

MACGREGOR. Life and Opinions of Major-general Sir Charles

MacGregor, K.C.B., C.S.I. , CLE., Quartermaster-General of India. From
his Letters and Diaries. Edited by Lady MacGregor. With Portraits and
Maps to illustrate Campaigns in which he was engaged. 2 vols. Svo, 35s.

Macintosh. The Book of the Garden. By Charles Macintosh,

formerly Curator of the Royal Gardens of his Majesty the King of the Belgians
and lately of those of his Grace the Duke of Buccleuch, Keg., at Dalkeith Pall
ace. Two large vols, royal Svo, embellished with 1350 Engravings. 4, 7s. 6d.

Vol. I. On the Formation of Gardens and Construction of Garden Edifices. ' 776*
pages, and 1073 Engravings, 2, los.

Vol. II. Practical Gardening. 868 pages, and 279 Engravings, ;i, 17s. 6d.

MACINTYRE. Hindu Koh : Wanderings and Wild Sports on and

beyond the Himalayas. By Major-general Donald Macintyre, V.C late
Prince of Wales' Own Goorkhas, F.R.G.S. In One Volume, with numerous

Illustrations.

[In the press.

MACKAY. A Manual of Modern Geography ; Mathematical, Physical,
and Political. By the Rev. Alexander Mackay, LL.D., F.R.G S i"ith
Thousand, revised to the present time. Crown Svo, pp. 688. 7s. 6d.

MACKAY. Elements of Modern Geography. By the Rev. Alexander
Mackay, LL.D., F.R.G.S. 53ci Thousand, revised to the present time.
Crown 8vo, pp. 300, 3s.

The Intermediate Geography. Intended as an Intermediate
Book between the Author's ' Outlines of Geography ' and ' Elements c>f
Geography.' Fourteenth Edition, revised. Crown 8vo, pp. 238, 2s.

Outlines of Modern Geography. 176th Thousand, revised
to the present time. imo, pp. 118, is.

First Steps in Geography. seth Thousand. imo, pp.

56. Sewed, 4d. ; cloth, 6d.

Elements of Physiography and Physical Geography.

With Express Reference to the Instructions recently issued by the Science and
Art Department. 30th Thousand, revised. Crown 8vo. is. 6d.

Facts and Dates ; or, the Leading Events in Sacred and

Profane History, and the Principal Facts in the various Physical Sciences.
The Memory being aided throughout by a Simple and Natural Method, For
Schools and Private Reference. New Edition. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

MACKAY. An Old Scots Brigade. Being the History of Mackay's

Regiment, now incorporated with the Royal Scots. With an Appendix containing
many Original Documents connected with the History of the Regiment.
By John Mackay (late) of Herriesdale. Crown 8vo, 5s.

MACKAY. The Founders of the American Republic. A History

of Washington, Adams, Jefferson, Franklin, and Madison. With a Supplementary
Chapter on the Inherent Causes of the Ultimate Failure of American
Democracy. By Charles Mackay, LL.D. Post 8vo, los. 6d.

MACKELLAR. More Leaves from the Journal of a Life in the

Highlands, from 1862 to 1882. Translated into Gaelic by Mrs Mary Mackel-
LAR. By command of Her Majesty the Queen. Crown 8vo, with Illustrations,
los. 6d.

Mckenzie. Studies in Roman Law. With Comparative Views

of the Laws of France, England, and Scotland. By Lord Mckenzie, one of
the Judges of the Court of Session in Scotland. Sixth Edition, Edited by
John Kirkpatrick, Esq., M.A. Cantab.; Dr Fur. Heidelb. ; LL.B. Eden. ;
Advocate. 8vo, 12s.

MAIN. Three Hundred English Sonnets. Chosen and Edited by

David M. Main. Cap. 8vo, 6s.

MAIR. A Digest of Laws and Decisions, Ecclesiastical and Civil

relating to the Constitution, Practice, and Affairs of the Church of Scotland.
With Notes and Forms of Procedure. By the Rev. William Mair, D.D.,
Minister of the Parish of Carleton. Crown 8vo. With a Supplement, 7s. od.

MARMORNE. The Story is told by Adolphus Serve, the

youngest of three Brothers. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.

MARSHALL. French Home Life. By Frederic Marshall.

Second Edition. 5s.
Marshal. History of India. From the Earliest Period to the

Close of the India Company's Government ; with an Epitome of Subsequent
Events. By John Clark Marshal, C.S.I. Abridged from the Author's
larger work. Second Edition, revised. Crown 8vo, with Map, 6s. 6d.

MARTIN. Goethe's Faust. Part I. Translated by Sir Theodore

Martin, K.C.B. Second Ed., crown 8vo, 6s. Ninth Ed., cap. 8vo, 3s. 6d.

Goethe's Faust. Part II. Translated into English Verse.

Second Edition, revised. Cap. 8vo, 6s.

The Works of Horace. Translated into English Verse,

with Life and Notes. 2 vols. New Edition, crown 8vo, 21s.

Poems and Ballads of Heinrich Heine. Done into English
Verse. Second Edition. Printed on papier verge, crown 8vo, 8s.

Catullus. With Life and Notes. Second Ed., post 8vo, 7s. 6d.

MARTIN. Aladdin : A Dramatic Poem. By Adam Oehlen-

Schlegel Cap. 8vo, 5S.

Correggio : A Tragedy. By Oehlenschlaeger. With

Notes. Cap. 8vo, 3s.

King Rene's Daughter : A Danish Lyrical Drama. By

Hexrik Hertz. Second Edition, cap., 2s. 6d.

MARTIN. On some of Shakespeare's Female Characters. In a

Series of Letters. By Helena Faucit, Lady Martin. Dedicated by permission
to Her Most Gracious Majesty the Queen. Third Edition. 8vo, with
Portrait, 7s. 6d.

Matson. Can the Old Faith Live with the New? or the

Problem of Evolution and Revelation. By the Rev. George Matson, D.U.
Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

 The Psalmist and the Scientist ; or, Modern Value of the

Religious Sentiment. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

MAURICE. The Balance of Military Power in Europe. An

Examination of the War Resources of Great Britain and the Continental States.
By Colonel Maurice, R. A., Professor of Military Art and History at the Royal
Staff College. Crown 8vo, with a Map. 6s.

MICHEL. A Critical Inquiry into the Scottish Language. With

the view of Illustrating the Rise and Progress of Civilisation in Scotland. By
Francisque-Michel, F.S.A. Lord. and Scot., Correspondant de Institut de
France, &c. In One handsome Quarto Volume, printed on hand-made paper,
and appropriately bound in Roxburgh style. Price cs.

MICHIE. The Larch : Being a Practical Treatise on its Culture

and General Management. By Christopher Y. Michel, Forester, Sullen House.
Crown 8vo, with Illustrations. New and Cheaper Edition, enlarged, 5s.

Practical Forestry. Crown 8vo, with Illustrations. 6s.

MILNE. The Problem of the Churchless and Poor in our Large

Towns. With special reference to the Home Mission Work of the Church
of Scotland. By the Rev. Root. Milne,M.A.,D.D., Archer. Crown 8vo, 5s.

Into. A Manual of English Prose Literature, Biographical

and Critical : designed mainly to show Characteristics of Style, By W. Into,
M.A., Professor of Logic in the University of Aberdeen. Third Edition,
revised. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

Characteristics of English Poets, from Chaucer to Shirley.

New Edition, revised. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

The Crack of Doom. 3 vols, post 8vo, 25s. 6d.

MITCHELL. Biographies of Eminent Soldiers of the last Four

Centuries. By Major-general John Mitchell, Author of 'Life of Wallenstein. '
With a Memoir of the Author. 8vo, gs.

Mair. Life of Manse Watch, Tailor in Dalkeith. With 8
Illustrations on Steel, by the late George Crtjikshank. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.
Another Edition, cap. 8vo, is. 6d.

Homeric. Defects of Modern Christianity, and other Sermons.

By the Rev. A. W. Moderne, M.A., D.Sc, LL.D., Professor of Logic and
Metaphysics in King's College, London. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 5s,

The Basis of Religion. Being an Examination of Natural

Religion. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

The Origin of Evil, and other Sermons. Fifth Edition,

enlarged. Crown 8vo, 5s.

 Personality. The Beginning and End of Metaphysics, and

a Necessary Assumption in all Positive Philosophy. Third Ed. Cr. 8vo, 3s.

Agnosticism. Second Edition, Revised. Crown 8vo, 5s.

Preaching and Hearing ; and other Sermons. Second

Edition. Crown 8vo, 4s. 6d.

Belief in God. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 3s.

Inspiration ; and other Sermons. Crown 8vo, 5s.

MONTAGUE. Campaigning in South Africa. Reminiscences of

an Officer in 1879. By Captain W. E. Montague, 94th Regiment, Author of
Claude Meadowleigh,' &c. 8vo, los. 6d.

MONT ALE Bert. Memoir of Count de Montalembert. A

Chapter of Recent French History. By Mrs Oliphant, Author of the 'Life
of Edward Irving,' &c. 2 vols, crown Svo, i, 4s.

Murdoch. Manual of the Law of Insolvency and Bankruptcy :

Comprehending a Summary of the Law of Insolvency, Notour Bankruptcy,
Composition - contracts. Trust-deeds, Cession, and Sequestrations; and the
Winding-up of Joint-stock Companies in Scotland ; with Annotations on the
various Insolvency and Bankruptcy Statutes ; and with Forms of Procedure
applicable to these Subjects. By James Murdoch, Member of the Faculty of
Procurators in Glasgow. Fifth Edition, Revised and Enlarged, Svo, i, los.

MY TRIVIAL LIFE AND MISFORTUNE : A Gossip with

no Plot in Particular. By A Plain Woman. New Edition, crown Svo, 6s.
By the Same Author.
POOR NELLIE, New and Cheaper Edition. Complete in one
volume, crown Svo, 6s.

Leaves. Songs and Verses, Social and Scientific. By an Old

Contributor to 'Mama.' By the Hon. Lord Leaves. Fifth Ed., cap. Svo, 4s.

The Greek Anthology. Being Vol. XX. of ' Ancient Classics
for English Readers.' Crown Svo, 2s. 6d.

NICHOLSON. A Manual of Zoology, for the Use of Students.

With a General Introduction on the Principles of Zoology. By Henry Al-leone
Nicholson, M.D., D.Sc, F.L.S., F.G.S., Regius Professor of Natural
History in the University of Aberdeen. Seventh Edition, rewritten and
enlarged. Post Svo, pp. 956, with 555 Engravings on Wood, 18s.

Text-book of Zoology, for the Use of Schools. Fourth Edition,
enlarged. Crown Svo, with 1S8 Engravings on Wood, 7s. 6d.

Introductory Text-book of Zoology, for the Use of Junior

Classes. Sixth Edition, revised and enlarged, with 166 Engravings, 3s.

- Outlines of Natural History, for Beginners ; being Descriptions
of a Progressive Series of Zoological Types. Third Edition, with
Engravings, is. 6d.

- A Manual of Palseontology, for the Use of Students.

With a General Introduction on the Principles of Palaeontology. Second Edition.
Revised and greatly enlarged. 2 vols. Svo, with 722 Engravings, ; 2, 2s.

- The Ancient Life-History of the Earth. An Outline of

the Principles and Leading Facts of Palseontological Science. Crown Svo,
with 276 Engravings, los. 6d.

- On the " Tabulate Corals " of the Palaeozoic Period,

with Critical Descriptions of Illustrative Species. Illustrated with 15
Lithograph Plates and numerous Engravings. Super-royal Svo, 21s.

- Synopsis of the Classification of the Animal Kingdom.
Svo, with 106 Illustrations, 6s.

On the Structure and Affinities of the Genus Monticello

and its Sub-Genera, with Critical Descriptions of Illustrative Species
Illustrated with numerous Engravings on wood and lithographed 
Svo, iSs.

NICHOLSON. Communion with Heaven, and other Sermons.

By the late Maxwell Nicholson, D.D., Minister of St Stephen's, Edinburgh.
Crown Svo, 5s. 6d.

Rest in Jesus. Sixth Edition. Cap. Svo, 4s. 6d.

NICHOLSON. A Treatise on Money, and Essays on Present

Monetary Problems. By Joseph Shield Nicholson, M.A. , D.Sc, Professor
of Commercial and Political Economy and Mercantile Law in the University
of Edinburgh. Svo, los. 6d.

OLIPHANT. Masollam : a Problem of the Period. A Novel.

By Laurence Oliphant. 3 vols, post Svo, 25s. 6d.

Scientific Religion ; or. Higher Possibilities of Life and

Practice through the Operation of Natural Forces. Second Edition. Svo, i6s.

OLIPHANT. Altera Peto. By Laurence Oliphant. New and

Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, boards, 2s. 6d. Illustrated Edition. Crown
8vo, cloth, 6s.

Piccadilly : A Fragment of Contemporary Biography. With

Eight Illustrations by Richard Doyle. Eighth Edition, 4s. 6d. Cheap Edition,
in paper cover, 2s. 6d.

Traits and Travesties; Social and Political. Post8vo,ios.6d.

The Land of Gilead. With Excursions in the Lebanon.

With Illustrations and Maps. Demy 8vo, 21s.

The Land of Khemi. PostSvo, with Illustrations, los. 6d.

Haifa : Life in Modern Palestine. 2d Edition. 8vo, 7s. 6d.

Episodes in a Life of Adventure ; or, Moss from a Boiling

stone. Fourth Edition. Post 8vo, 6s.

Fashionable Philosophy, and other Sketches. In paper

cover, IS.
Synipneumata : or, Evolutionary Functions now Active in

Man. Edited by Laurence Oliphant. Post 8vo, los. 6d.

OLIPHANT. The Story of Valentine ; and his Brother. By Mrs

Oliphant. 5s., cloth.

Katie Stewart. 2S. 6d.

OSBORN. Narratives of Voyage and Adventure. By Admiral

Shepard Osborn, C.B. 3 vols, crown 8vo, 12s.

OSSIAN. The Poems of Ossian in the Original Gaelic. With a

Literal Translation into English, and a Dissertation on the Authenticity of the
Poems. By the Rev. Archibald Clerk. 2 vols, imperial 8vo, 1, us. 6d.

OSWALD. By Fell and Fjord ; or, Scenes and Studies in Iceland.

By E. J. Oswald. Post Bvo, with Illustrations. 7s. 6d.

OUTCASTS, The ; or, Certain Passages in the Life of a Clergyman.

2 vols. Post 8vo, 17s.

Outran. Lyrics : Legal and Miscellaneous. By the late George

Outran, Esq., Advocate. New Edition, with Explanatory Notes. Edited
by J. H. Stoddart, LL.D. ; and Illustrated by William Ralston and A. S.
Boyd. Cap. 8vo, 5s.

PAGE. Introductory Text-book of Geology. By David Page,

LL.D., Professor of Geology in the Durham University of Physical Science,
Newcastle, and Professor Lapavorth of Mason Science College, Birmingham.
With Engravings and Glossarial Index. Twelfth Edition. Revised and Enlarged.
3s. 6d.

Advanced Text-book of Geology, Descriptive and Industrial.
With Engravings, and Glossary of Scientific Terms. Sixth Edition, revised
and enlarged, 7s. 6d.

Introductory Text-book of Physical Geography. With

Sketch-Maps and Illustrations. Edited Charles Tamworth, LL.D., Eg. S.,
&c., Professor of Geology and Mineralogy in the Mason Science College, Birmingham.
12th Edition. 2s. 6d.

Advanced Text-book of Physical Geography. Third

Edition, Revised and Enlarged by Prof. Tamworth. With Engravings. 5s.

PATON. Spindrift. By Sir J. Noel Baton. Cap., cloth, 5s.

Poems by a Painter. 'Cap., cloth, 5s.

PATTERSON. Essays in History and Art. By R. Hogarth

Patterson. 8vo, 12s.

The New Golden Age, and Influence of the Precious

Metals upon the World. 2 vols. 8vo, 31s. 6d.

PAUL. History of the Royal Company of Archers, the Queen's

Body-Guard for Scotland. By James Balfour Paul, Advocate of the Scottish
Bar. Crown 4to, with Portraits and other Illustrations. 2, 2s.

Pile. Lawn Tennis as a Game of Skill. With latest revised

Laws as play-ed by the Best Clubs. By Captain S. C. F. Pile, B.S.C. Fourth
Edition, cap. cloth, is. 6d.

PETTIGREW. The Handy Book of Bees, and their Profitable

Management, By A. Pettigrew. Fourth Edition, Enlarged, with Engravings.
Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

PHILOSOPHICAL CLASSICS FOR ENGLISH READERS.

Companion Series to Ancient and Foreign Classics for English Readers.
Edited by William Knight, LL.D., Professor of Moral Philosophy, University
of St Andrews. In crown 8vo volumes, with portraits, price 3s. 6d.

For list of Volumes published, see ixtge 2.

Pollock. The Course of Time : A Poem. By Robert Pollock,

A.M. Small cap. 8vo, cloth gilt, 2s. 6d. The Cottage Edition, 32mo, sewed,
8d. The Same, cloth, gilt edges, is. 6d. Another Edition, with Illustrations
by Birket Foster and others, cap., gilt cloth, 3s. 6d., or with edges gilt, 4s.

PORT ROYAL LOGIC. Translated from the French ; with Introduction,
Notes, and Appendix. By Thomas Spencer Barnes, LL.D., Professor
in the University of St Andrews. Tenth Edition, imo, 4s.

POTTS AND Darnel. Aditus Facilities : An easy Latin Construing
Book, with Complete Vocabulary. By A. W. Potts, M.A., LL.D.,
Head-Master of the Fetters College, Edinburgh, and sometime Fellow of St
John's College, Cambridge; and the Rev. C. Darrell, M.A., Head-Master of
Cargilfield Preparatory School, Edinburgh, and late Scholar of Pembroke and
Downing Colleges, Cambridge. Ninth Edition, cap. 8vo, 3s. 6d.

Aditus Facilities Graeca. An easy Greek Construing Book,

with Complete Vocabulary. Fourth Edition, cap. 8vo, 3s.

Prince. The Live-Stock of the Farm. By Robert 0. Prince.

Third Edition. Revised and Edited by James Macdonald, of the 'Farming
World,' &c. Crown 8vo, 7S. 6d.

PUBLIC GENERAL STATUTES AFFECTING SCOTLAND

from 1707 to 1847, with Chronological Table and Index. 3 vols, large 8vo, 2, 3s.

PUBLIC GENERAL STATUTES AFFECTING SCOTLAND,

COLLECTION OF. Published Annually with General Index.

RAMSAY. Rough Recollections of Military Service and Society.

By Lieut-col. Balcarres D. Wardle Ramsay. Two vols, post 8vo, 21s.

RAMSAY. Scotland and Scotsmen in the Eighteenth Century.

Edited from the MSS. of John Ramsay, Esq. of Ochtertyre, by Alexander
Allardyce, Author of 'Memoir of Admiral Lord Keith, K.B.,' &c. 2 vols.
8vo, 3 Is. 6d.

RANKIN, A Handbook of the Church of Scotland. By James

Rankin, D.D., Minister of Uphill ; Author of 'Character Studies in the
Old Testament,' &c. An entirely New and much Enlarged Edition. Crown
Bvo', with 2 Maps, 7s. 6d.

RANKINE. A Treatise on the Rights and Burdens incident to

the Ownership of Lands and other Heritages in Scotland. By John Rankine
M.A., Advocate, Professor of Scots Law in the University of Edinburgh.
Second Edition, Revised and Enlarged. 8vo, 45s.

RECORDS OF THE TERCENTENARY FESTIVAL OF THE

 EDINBURGH. Celebrated in April 1884. Published
under the Sanction of the Senatus Academies. Large 4to, 2, 12s. 6d.

RICE. Reminiscences of Abraham Lincoln. By Distinguished

Men of his Time. Collected and Edited by Allen Thorndike Rice, Editor
of the ' North American Review.' Large 8vo, with Portraits, 21s.

Simmer. The Early Homes of Prince Albert. By Alfred

Rummer, Author of ' Our Old Country Towns,' &c. Beautifully Illustrated
with Tinted Plates and numerous Engravings on Wood. 8vo, los. 6d.

ROBERTSON. Orellana, and other Poems. By J. Logie Robertson.

M.A. Cap. 8vo. Printed on hand-made paper. 6s.

The White Angel of the Polly Ann, and other Stories.

A Book of Fables and Fancies. Cap. 8vo, 3s. 6d.

Our Holiday Among the Hills. By James and Janet

Logie Robertson. Cap. 8vo, 3s. 6d.

ROSCOE. Rambles with a Fishing-rod. By E. S. Roscoe. Crown

8vo, 4S. 6d.

ROSS. Old Scottish Regimental Colours. By Andrew Ross,

S.S.C., Hon. Secretary Old Scottish Regimental Colours Committee. Dedicated
by Special Permission to Her Majesty the Queen. Folio, handsomely
bound in cloth, i, 12s. 6d.

RUSSELL. The Hangs of Bemersyde. A Family History. By

John Russell. Large 8vo, with Illustrations. 21s.

RUSSELL. Fragments from Many Tables. Being the Recollections of

some Wise and Witty Men and Women. By Gko. Russell. Cr. 8vo, 4s. 6d.

RUSTOW. The War for the Rhine Frontier, 1870 : Its Political

and Military History. By Col. W. Rustow. Translated from the German,
by John Lapland Needham, Lieutenant Rem. Artillery. 3 vols. 8vo, with
Maps and Plans, ;i, his. 6d.

RUTLAND. Notes of an Irish Tour in 1846. By the Duke of

Rutland, G.C.B. (Lord John Manners). New Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

RUTLAND. Gems of German Poetry. Translated by the Duchess

OF Rutland (Lady John Manners). Small quarto, 3s. 6d.

Impressions of Bad-Homburg. Comprising a Short Account
of the Women's Associations of Germany under the Red Cross. Crown
8vo, IS. 6d.

Some Personal Recollections of the Later Years of the Earl

of Beaconsfield, Keg. Sixth Edition, 6d.

Employment of Women in the Public Service. 6d.

Some of the Advantages of Easily Accessible Reading and

Recreation Rooms, and Free Libraries. With Remarks on Starting and
Maintaining Them. Second Edition, crown 8vo, is.

A Sequel to Rich Men's Dwellings, and other Occasional

Papers. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

Encouraging Experiences of Reading and Recreation Rooms.

Aims of Guilds, Nottingham Social Guild, Existing Institutions, &c., &c.
Crown 8vo, is.

SCHILLER. Wallenstein. A Dramatic Poem. By Frederick

VON Schiller. Translated by C. G. A. Lockhart. Cap. 8vo, 7s. 6d.

SCOTCH LOCH FISHING. By "Black Palmer." Crown 8vo,

interleaved with blank pages, 4s.

SCOTTISH METAPHYSICS. Reconstructed in accordance with

the Principles of Physical Science. By the Writer of ' Free Notes on Herbert
Spencer's First Principles.' Crown 8vo, 5s.

SELLAR. Manual of the Education Acts for Scotland. By

Alexander Craig Sellar, M.P. Eighth Edition. Revised and in great
part rewritten by J. Edward Graham, Bea. Oxon., Advocate. Containing
the Technical Schools Act, 1SS7, and all Acts bearing on Education in Scotland.
With Rules for the conduct of Elections, with Notes and Cases. 8vo, los. 6d,

SELLER AND STEPHENS. Physiology at the Farm ; in Aid of

Rearing and Feeding the Live Stock. By William Seller, M.D., F.R.S.E.,
Fellows the Royal College of Physicians, Edinburgh, formerly Lecturer on
Materia Medica and Dietetics ; and Henry Stephens, F.R.S.E., Author of ' The
Book of the Farm,' &c. Post 8vo. with Engravings, i6s.

SETH. Scottish Philosophy. A Comparison of the Scottish and

German Answers to Hume. Balfour Philosophical Lectures, University of
Edinburgh, By Andrew Seth, M.A., Professor of Logic, Rhetoric, and
Metaphysics in the University of St Andrews. Crown Svo, 5s.

Hegelianism and Personality. Balfour Philosophical Lectures.
Second Series. Crown Svo, 5s.

SETON. A Budget of Anecdotes. Chiefly relating to the Current

Century. Compiled and Arranged by Georges Seton, Advocate, M.A. Oxon.
New and Cheaper Edition, cap. Svo. Boards, is. 6d.

SHADWELL. The Life of Colin Campbell, Lord Clyde. Illustrated
by Extracts from his Diary and Correspondence. By Lieutenant-general
Shadwell, C.B. 2 vols. Svo. With Portrait, Maps, and Plans. 36s.

Hand. Half a Century; or, Changes in Men and Manners. By
Alex. Innes Hand, Author of 'Against Time,' &c. Second Ed., Svo, 12s. 6d.

Shad. Letters from the West of Ireland. By Alex. Innes

Hand. Reprinted from the 'Times.' Crown 8vo, 58.

SHARPE. Letters from and to Charles Kirkpatrick Sharpe.

Edited by Alexander Allardyce, Author of 'Memoir of Admiral Lord
Keith. K.B.,' &c. With a Memoir by the Rev. W. K. R. Bedford. In two
vols. 8vo. Illustrated with Etchings and other Engravings. 2, 12s. 6d.

SIM. Margaret Sin's Cookery. With an Introduction by L. B.

Walford, Author of ' Mr Smith : A Part of His Life,' &c. Crown 8vo, 5s.

SKELTON. Maitland of Lexington ; and the Scotland of Mary

Stuart. A History. By John Skelton, C.B., LL.D. Author of ' The Essays
of Shirley.' Demy Svo. VoL I., 12s. 6d. ; Vol. II., 15s. 6d.  r-> 

SMITH. Italian Irrigation : A Report on the Agricultural Canals

of Piedmont and Lombardy, addressed to the Hon. the Directors of the East
India Company ; with an Appendix, containing a Sketch of the Irrigation System
of Northern and Central India. By Lieut-col R. Baird Smith, F.G.S.,
Bengal Engineers. Second Edition. 2 vols. Svo, with Atlas, sos.

SMITH. Thorndale ; or, The Conflict of Opinions. By William

Smith, Author of 'A Discourse on Ethics, '&c. New Edition. Cr. Svo, los. 6d.

Gravenhurst ; or, Thoughts on Good and EvU. Second

Edition, with Memoir of the Author. Crown Svo, 8s.

SMITH. Greek Testament Lessons for Colleges, Schools, and

Private Students, consisting chiefly of the Sermon on the Mount and the
Parables of our Lord. With Notes and Essays. By the Rev. J. Hunter
Smith, M. A King Edward's School, Birmingham. Crown Svo, 6s.

SMITH. Writings by the Way. By John Campbell Smith,

M.A., Sheriff-Substitute. Crown Svo, 9s.

SMITH. The Secretary for Scotland. Being a Statement of the

Powers and Duties of the new Scottish Office. With a Short Historical
Introduction and numerous references to important Administrative Documents.
By W. C. Smith, LL.B., Advocate. Svo. 6s.

Softer. A Lady's Ride Across Spanish Honduras. By Maria

SoLTERA. With illustrations. Post Svo, 12S. 6d.

The Fat of the Land. A Novel. 3 vols, post 8vo, 25s. 6d.

Morley. The Ethics of Naturalism. Being the Shaw Fellowship

Lectures, 1S84. Bv W. R. Sorlev, M.A., Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge,
and Examiner in Philosophy in the University of Edinburgh. Crown Svo, 6s.

SPEEDY. Sport in the Highlands and Lowlands of Scotland with

Rod and Gun. ByToMSPEEDV. Second Edition, Revised and Enlarged. With
lUustrationsbvLieut-gen. HopeCrealocke.C.B., CM. G., and others. Svo, 15s.

Sprout. The Worship and Offices of the Church of Scotland ;

or, the Celebration of Public Worship, the Administration of the Sacraments,
and other Divine Offices, according to the Order of the Church of Scotland.
Bv George W. Sprout, D.D., Minister of North Berwick. Crown Svo. 6s.

STARFORTH. Villa Residences and Farm Architecture : A Series

of Designs. By John Starforth, Architect. 102 Engravings. Second Edition,
medium 4to, ; 2, 17s. 6d.

STATISTICAL ACCOUNT OF SCOTLAND. Complete, with

Index, 15 vols. Svo, 16, impeach
County sold separately, with Title, Index, and Map, neatly bound m cloth,
forming a very valuable manual to the Landowner, the Tenant, the Manufacturer,
the Naturalist, the Tourist, &c.

In rn)irf!c of publication.

STEPHENS' BOOK OF THE FARM; detailing the Labours of

the Farmer, Farm-Steward, Ploughman, Shepherd, Hedger. Farm-Labourer,
Field-Worker, and Cattleman. Illustrated with numerous Portraits of Animals
and Engravings of Implements. Fourth Edition. Revised, and in great
part rewritten bv .James Macdonald, of the ' Farming World,' &c., &c. Assisted
by many olF the leading agricultural authorities of the day. To be completed
in Six Divisions. [Division I-price los. 6f7., nov: ready.

The Book of Farm Buildings ; their Arrangement and

Construction. By Henry Stephens, F.R.S.E., Author of 'The Book of the
Farm;' and Robert Scott Burn. Illustrated with 1045 Plates and Engravings.
Large Svo, uniform with * The Book of the Fanny,' &c. j, his. 6d.

STEPHENS. The Book of Farm Implements and Machines. By J.

Slight and R. Scott Burn, Engineers. Edited by Henry Stephens. Large
8vo. uniform with ' The Book of the Farm,' 2, 2s.

STEVENSON. British Fungi. (Hymenomycetes.) By Eev. John

Stevenson, Author of ' Mycologia Scotia,' Hon. Sec. Cryptogamic Society of
Scotland. 2 vols, post 8vo, with Illustrations, price 12s. 6d. each.
Vol. I. Agaricus Bolbitius. Vol II. Ordinaries Dacrymyces.

STEWART. Advice to Purchasers of Horses. By John Stewart,

VS., Author of 'Stable Economy.' New Edition. 2s. 6d.

Stable Economy. A Treatise on the Management of

Horses in relation to Stabling, Grooming, Feeding, "Watering, and Working.
By John Stewart, Vas. Seventh Edition, cap. 8vo, 6s. 6d.

STORMONTH. Etymological and Pronouncing Dictionary of the

English Language. Including a very Copious Selection of Scientific Terms.
For Use in Schools and Colleges, and as a Book of General Reference. By the
Rev. James Stormonth. The Pronunciation carefully Revised by the Rev.
P. H. Help, M.A. Cantab. Ninth Edition, Revised throughout. Crown
8vo, pp. 800. 7s. 6d.

Dictionary of the English Language, Pronouncing,

Etymological, and Explanatory. Revised by the Rev. P. H. Help. Library
Edition. Imperial 8vo, handsomely bound in half morocco, 31s. 6d.

The School Etymological Dictionary and Word-Book.

Combining the advantages of an ordinary pronouncing School Dictionary
and an Ethnological Spelling-book. Fourth Edition. Cap. 8vo, pp. 254. 2s.

STORY. Nero ; A Historical Play. By W. W. Story, Author of

'Robe di Roma.' Cap. 8vo, 6s.

Vallombrosa. Post 8vo, 5s.

He and She ; or, A Poet's Portfolio. Cap. 8vo, in parchment,
3s. 6d.

Poems. 2 vols, cap., 7s. 6d.

 Damietta. A Summer Idol. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

STRICKLAND. Life of Agnes Strickland. By her Sister.

Post 8vo, with Portrait engraved on Steel, 12s. 6d.

Surges. John - a - Dreams. A Tale. By Julian Surges.

New Edition, crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

Little Comedies, Old and New. Crown Svo, 7s. 6d.

SUTHERLAND. Handbook of Hardy Herbaceous and Alpine

Flowers, for general Garden Decoration. Containing Descriptions, in Plain
Language, of upwards of 1000 Species of Ornamental Hardy Perennial and
Alpine Plants, adapted to all classes of Flower-gardens, Clockwork, and
Waters ; along with Concise and Plain Instructions for their Propagation and
Culture. By William Sutherland, Landscape Gardener; formerly Manager
of the Herbaceous Department at Kew. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

TAYLOR. The Story of My Life. By the late Colonel Meadows

Taylor, Author of 'The Confessions of a Thug,' &c. &c. Edited by his
Daughter. New and cheaper Edition, being the Fourth. Crown Svo, 6s.

THOLUCK. Hours of Christian Devotion. Translated from the

German of A. Tholuck, D.D. , Professor of Theology in the University of Halle.
By the Rev. Robert Menzies, D. D. With a Preface written for this Translation
by the Author. Second Edition, crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

THOMSON. Handy Book of the Flower-garden : being Practical

Directions for the Propagation, Culture, and Arrangement of Plants in Flower-gardens
all the year round. Embracing all classes of Gardens, from the largest
to the smallest. With Engraved Plans, illustrative of the various systems of
Grouping in Beds and Borders. By David Thomson, Gardener to his Grace
the Duke of Buccleuch, K.T., at Drumlanrig. Fourth and Cheaper Edition,
crown 8vo, 5s.

THOMSON. The Handy Book of Fruit-Culture under Glass : being

a series of Elaborate Practical Treatises on the Cultivation and Forcing of
Pines, Vines, Peaches, Figs, Melons, Strawberries, and Cucumbers. With Engravings
of Hothouses, &c., most suitable for the Cultivation and Forcing of
these Fruits. By David Thomson, Gardener to his Grace the Duke of Buck
K.T., at Drumlanrig. Second Ed. Cr. 8vo, with Engravings, 7s. 6d.

THOMSON. A Practical Treatise on the Cultivation of the Grapevine.
By William Thomson, Tweed Vineyards. Ninth Edition, 8vo, 5s.
THOMSON. Cookery for the Sick and Convalescent. With

Directions for the Preparation of Poultices, Fomentations, &c. By Barbara
Thomson. Cap. Svo, is. 6d.

THOTH. A Romance. Second Edition. Crown Svo, 4s. 6d.
TOM Cringe's LOG. A New Edition, with illustrations.

Crown Svo, cloth gilt, 5s. Cheap Edition, 2s.

TRANSACTIONS OF THE HIGHLAND AND Agricultural
SOCIETY OF SCOTLAND. Published annually, price 5s.

Bullock. Rational Theology and Christian Philosophy in England
in the Seventeenth Century. By John Bullock, D.D., Principal of St
Mary's College in the University of St Andrews ; and one of her Majesty's
Chaplains in Ordinary in Scotland. Second Edition. 2 vols. Svo, i6s.

Modern Theories in Philosophy and Religion. Svo, 15.S.

Luther, and other Leaders of the Reformation. Third

Edition, enlarged. Crown Svo, 3s. 6d.

Memoir of Principal Bullock, D.D., LL.D., one of Her

Majesty's Chaplains for Scotland. By Mrs Oliphant, Author of ' Life of
Edward Irving,' Svo, with a Portrait. Second Edition. 21s.

TWO STORIES OF THE SEEN AND THE UNSEEN. ' The

Open Door,' ' Old Lady Mary.' Crown Svo, cloth, 2s. 6d.

YEITCH. Institutes of Logic. By John Veitch, LL.D., Professor
of Logic and Rhetoric in the University of Glasgow. Post Svo, 12s. 6d.

The Feeling for Nature in Scottish Poetry. From the Earliest
Times to the Present Day. 2 vols. cap. Svo, in roxburgh binding. 15s.

Merlin and Other Poems. [in the prcs

VIRGIL. The neid of Virgil. Translated in English Blank

Verse by G. K. Rickards, M.A.,aud LordRAVENSwoRTH. 2 vols. cap. Svo,ios.

WALFORD. The Novels of L. B. Walford. New and Uniform

Edition. Crown Svo, each 5s. Sold separately.
Mr Smith: A Part of his Life.  Cousins. Pauline.  Troublesome
Daughters. Dick Nether. The Baby's Grandmother.  History
OF a Week.

Four Biographies from 'Blackwood': Jane Taylor, Hannah
More, Elizabeth Fry, Mary Somerville. Crown Svo, 5s.

WARREN'S (SAMUEL) WORKS. People's Edition, 4 vols, crown

Svo, cloth, 15s. 6d. Or separately:

Diary of a Late Physician. Cloth, 2s. 6d. ; boards, 2s.

Ten Thousand A- Year. Cloth, 3s. 6d. ; boards, 2s. 6d.

Now and Then. The Lily and the Bee. Intellectual and Moral

Development of the Present Age. 4s. 6d.

Essays : Critical, Imaginative, and Juridical. 5s.
WARREN. The Five Books of the Psalms. With Marginal

Notes. By Rev. Samuel L. Warren, Rector of Esher, Surrey ; late Fellow,
Dean, and Divinity Lecturer, Waltham College, Oxford. Crown Svo, 5s.
WATSON. Christ's Authority ; and other Sermons. By the late
Archibald Watson, D.D., Minister of the Parish of Dundee, and one of'
Her Majesty's Chaplains for Scotland. With Introduction by the Very
Rev. Principal Caird, Glasgow. Crown Svo, 7s. 6d.

WEBSTER. The Angler and the Loop-Rod. By David AVebstee.

Crown Svo, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

WELLINGTON. Wellington Prize Essays on "the System of Field

Manoeuvres best adapted tor enabling our Troops to meet a Continental Army."
Edited by Lieut-general Sir Edward Bruce Hamley, K.C.B. 8vo, 12s. 6d.

WESTMINSTER ASSEMBLY. Minutes of the Westminster Assembly,
while engaged in preparing their Directory for Church Government,
Confession of Faith, and Catechisms (November 1644 to March 1649). Edited
by the Rev. Professor Alex. T. Mitchell, of St Andrews, and the Rev. John
Struthers, LL.D. With a Historical and Critical Introduction by Professor
Mitchell. 8vo, 15s.

WHITE. The Eighteen Christian Centuries. By the Rev. James

White. Seventh Edition, post 8vo, with Index, 6s.

History of France, from the Earliest Times. Sixth Thousand,
post 8vo, with Index, 6s.

WHITE. Archaeological Sketches in Scotland  Kintyre and Knap-dale.
By Colonel T, P. White, Ree., of the Ordnance Survey. With numerous
Illustrations. 2 vols, folio, 4, 4s. Vol. I., Kintyre, sold separately,

2, 2S.

The Ordnance Survey of the United Kingdom. A Popular

Account. Crown 8vo, 5s.

WILLIAMSON. Poems of Nature and Life. By David R.

Williamson, Minister of Kirkmaiden. Cap. 8vo, 3s.

WILLS AND GREENE. Drawing-room Dramas for Children. By

W. G. Wills and the Hon. Mrs Greene. Crown 8vo, 6s.

WILSON. Works of Professor Wilson. Edited by his Son-in-law,

Professor Farrier. 12 vols, crown 8vo, 2, 8s.

Christopher in his Sporting-Jacket. 2 vols., 8s.

Isle of Palms, City of the Plague, and other Poems. 4s.

Lights and Shadows of Scottish Life, and other Tales. 4s.

Essays, Critical and Imaginative. 4 vols., i6s.

The Notes Ambrosial. 4 vols., i6s.

Homer and his Translators, and the Greek Drama. Crown

8vo, 4S.

Innate. Annie Weir, and other Poems. By David Innate.

Cap. 8vo, 5s.

Lily Neil. A Poem. Crown 8vo, 4s. 6d.

WORDSWORTH. The Historical Plays of Shakspeare. With

Introductions and Notes. By Charles Wordsworth, D.C.L., Bishop of S.
Andrews. 3 vols, post 8vo, each price 7s. 6d.

WORSLEY. Poems and Translations. By Philip Stanhope

WoRSLEY, M.A. Edited by Edward Worsley. Second Edition, enlarged.
Cap. Svo, 6s.

YATE. England and Russia Face to Face in Asia. A Record of

Travel with the Afghan Boundary Commission. By Lieutenant A. C. Yate,
Bombay Staff" Corps, Special Correspondent of the 'Pioneer,' 'Daily Telegraph,'
&c., &c., with the Afghan Boundary Commission. Svo, with Maps
and Illustrations, 21s.

YATE. Northern Afghanistan ; or, Letters from the Afghan

Boundary Commission. By Major C. E. Yate, C.S.I., C.M.G. Bombay Staff

Corps, F'.R.G.S. 8 vo, with Maps. 18s.

YOUNG. A Story of Active Service in Foreign Lands, Compiled

from letters sent home from South Africa, India, and China, 1856-1882. By
Surgeon-general A. Graham Young, Author of ' Crimean Cracks.' Crown 8vo,
Illustrated, 7s. 6d.

YULE. Fortification : for the Use of Officers in the Army, and

Readers of Military History. By Col. Yule, Bengal Engineers. Svo, with
numerous Illustrations, los. 6d.

12;S8.

Av ,;

'./X'v>/

BY

L. B. Walked

AUTHOR OF 'troublesome DAUGHTERS,' ' SIR SMITH: A PART

OF HIS LIFE,' 'PAULINE,' 'COUSINS,' 'THE BABY'S

GRANDMOTHER,' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. II.

WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AXD Sons

EDINBURGH AND LONDON

MDCCCLXXXIX

All Rights reserved

CONTENTS OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

CHAP.

XV. HE WAS THE SYMBOL OF HER TRIUMPH,
XVI. " YOU can't MEAN TEAT ? "
XVII. THE REACTION BEGINS,
XVIII. " I WHO STOOD UP FOR HIM SO BRAVELY
ONCE ! "
XIX. THE CAGED BIRD,

XX. MAJOR gilbert's CASE,
XXI. TEMPEST, .

XXII. " IT MAKES ME MAD WITH Rosamond,"
XXIII. GILBERT UNDOES IT ALL, .
XXIV. TO-DAY SHE CARED FOR NO ONE,
XXV. A MISERABLE HOUR,
XXVI. "any OTHER COURSE WOULD BE UNWORTHY,

PAGE
















in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/stiffneckedgener02walf

CHAPTEE XV.

HE WAS THE SYMBOL OF HER TRIUMPH.

Stay  if I am never crost,
Half the pleasure wall be lost.

Lovers may of course complain
Of their trouble and their pain ;
But if pain and trouble cease,
Love without it would not please."

Anon.

Eight or wrong, wise or foolish, if Lady
Caroline's daughter had said she would do a
thing, that thing would she do ; and thus it
came to pass, that the happy major had the
happiness of reporting his happiness home, by
that very evening's post.

The letter went in Mr Liscard's own post-vol.

II. A

bag, and was written at Lady Caroline's own
davenport.

She was up-stairs, poor lady, dressing for
dinner  that dinner to which Gilbert had at
last made good many intentions of stopping,
and it was well indeed she was so, as she
was thus saved knowing the insult that was
being added to her injury.

May I write here ? " inquired the now
privileged guest, seating himself easily in the
well-known, well-detested chair, and thinking,
as he did so, how some day, but not just yet,
he would have a laugh with his betrothed
over the light in which it had hitherto been
regarded by him. 'I want just to send my
old pater a line," he added ; " he is expecting
it,

Is he ? " Rosamund was standing by,
triumphant and successful. The great ordeal
had been gone through, and she had carried
the day in the very teeth of bitter opposition
and reproach.

Her mother had been made to yield, her

father had unexpectedly stood forward on
her side, and her lover had shown himself
bold and resolute, and had furthermore justified
his being so. The few words which she
had overheard passing between her parents
subsequently had been music to her ear.
"The settlement will be exceptionally handsome,
and the position perfectly suitable.
We should be absolute fools to refuse," had
been uttered in her father's tones with an
energy to which no one was less accustomed
than his wife, and perhaps it was in consequence
of this that her reply, " The thing is
done. You have given your consent," was
muttered in lower and more uncertain accents
than was usual on her part. She had then
been silent for a long time, and Rosamund
had run away rejoicing.

She stood rejoicing now by Gilbert's side.

He was in her eyes the symbol of her
victory. For him lie had battled and won,
and she was proud of her prize. His heroism
of the previous day was still investing him

with its glory, added to which here he was,
such a fine, big, handsome fellow, that it was
in itself something to call such a man all her
own.

And then he loved her. And Eosamund
had never been loved before. It was a new
and wonderful experience.

"Why, you see, I'm a dutiful son," explained
Gilbert, truthfully enough, 'rand,"
he added, with a laugh, " moreover, I am a
dependent one. You understand that, eh,
Rosamund ? "

She had been " Rosamund " for fully two
hours now.

Oh yes." Not that she did, or cared, 
but it would have been " Oh yes " to anything
at the moment.

'' I could not have spoken to your father
without first consulting mine. I had to show
I was not exactly a pauper, you know," said
Gilbert, smiling complacently.

(the settlement exceptionally handsome,"
quoth Rosamund, internally, and was pleased

that he had so acquitted himself ; but for her
own part she would almost have preferred
poverty. Romantic eighteen not infrequently
does.)

They will all be immensely pleased' continued
the writer, opening the paper-and -
envelope case, and proceeding to rummage
through its contents.

"Are you looking for anything ? " inquired
she.

He was, in the hope of turning up a sheet
with a coroneted stamp ; for not being learned
in such lore, he could not help thinking the
august Lady Caroline must be entitled to
such.

Is that paper not right ? " questioned
Rosamund, solicitously. "I am afraid it is
rather a small size. Mamma never writes
on any but the smallest paper, and no one
else uses her davenport. This is her especial
davenport, you know. There is every kind
of paper on the library table. Would you
not rather ? "

But he would not rather at all.

It took his fancy amazingly thus to set his
foot, as it were, on the neck of his enemy at
the very outset of his career, and he protested
that the smallest-sized paper in the world
would do for all that was required.

Then she had to send her message, and
that in her own hand ; and she found it
strangely pleasant to have the " little hand "
which, by the way, was not particularly
little, and had never been noticed before 
kissed and admired, and the writing itself
praised  though it was about as bad as a
well-educated young lady's very best copy-book
handwriting usually is.

Gilbert, like a true gallant, was in love with
his fair at ail points, and stuck at nothing.
Neither black nor golden hair had, he vowed,
any attractions for him ; nothing but brown 
warm, red, waving brown (passing his handover
the brown in question)  could ever command
his homage. Tall women he detested ;
likewise short, broad, stumpy ones. Rosamond's

height was perfection. Likewise were
her eyes, nose, and mouth perfection ; likewise
were her beautiful voice and ringing laugh ;
likewise, moreover, was her dancing, and her
running, and her riding;  to listen to him was
like drinking one long, deep, perfumed, intoxicating
draught.

At last she got away, scarce knowing what
ground she stood upon ; how she felt ; where,
or what she was.

In her hand were the flowers he had bidden
her wear ; her ear rang with his sweet flatteries
; and her cheek was flushed with his
kisses.

What a day it had been ! She was trembling
all over with excitement ; thoughts, recollections,
hopes and wishes whirling tumultuously
through her brain ; gleeful anticipations,
making all the future dance before her vision ;
while even the present was far, far beyond
anything the past had ever been.

What was now to her the dulness, the grimness,
the oppression of that endless routine,

which had seemed as if it must go on forever
and ever in that house? What were
the rules, and restrictions, and debates, and
cogitations over every trifle, and difficulties
over the making of every new acquaintance,
and prohibitions in which Lady Caroline
delighted ?

She was about to flee them all. The yearnings
of her soul were to be satisfied at last.
Emancipation was at hand.

What though she must now speed like
lightning through a toilet delayed to the
last minute ? Anything, put on anyhow,
would look well on such a nio-ht. Little
Esther, the handmaiden, understood very
distinctly the hurry and the frolic of such
a dressing, and participated heart and soul.

All the household were Gilbert's adherents.
If they thought at all of Lord Portland, the
other eligible bachelor, it was to conjecture
that he was not yet ripe for matrimony,
but that he would, in all probability, one
day bring home a titled dame, who would

reinstate his fortunes, and enable him to fill
Lady Julia's place when Lady Julia should
be no longer there.

That day, all devoutly hoped, would be long
in coming.

For good Julia was greatly beloved, and her
summer treats and winter festivals, her gifts,
her charities, her indulgence, and her easy
rule, were appreciated scarcely less at King's
Common than at the Abbey itself.

So my lord was not to wed just yet. That
being settled. Major Gilbert was a fine suitor
for Miss Eosamund ; and his beings in her
lady-mother's black books rather added to his
popularity than diminished it. He had precisely
the sort of jovial, authoritative air which
most tells with inferiors ; he was liberal with
his money; and he gave himself no airs.
Added to which, it was a treat to see him
ridings at the head of his men through the
streets of Longminster ; and a comely corporal,
spanking over now and again, in full
uniform, with a note or a message, and an

important notion of the officer who had
despatched it  all went into the same
scale.

It stood to reason that the rescue of Billy
Barley placed the already well-disposed hearts
of all at Gilbert's feet.

"Do be quick, Esther, There's the five-minutes
gong."

"If you jump about like that, miss, I shall
never find the fastenings."

"Skip one or two. No one will be the
wiser."

I shall have done in a minute, miss."

How nicely this frock fits, Esther ! "

I thought you had complained of the
shoulder-straps, Miss Eosamund. I had been
going to see about altering them tomorrow."

Never mind troubling about them now.
I must have been mistaken. They look very
well to-night."

Do they not cut you, miss ? "

"Cut me? No. Or if they do, I don't
feel it. Oh, they are all right  quite nice.

quite comfortable." (sand they will not be
needed long," thought the fair wearer, with a
bounding heart. " Soon, soon I shall leave
them, and all besides, behind me. Oh, what
a new, new life it will be ! How delightful,
how free, how glorious ! He says I shall go
everywhere with him,  travel from place to
place, see fresh sights, and places, and people,
at every turn. We shall never be in the
same spot two years running. Perhaps we
shall be ordered abroad. At any rate, he is
to take me abroad ; and when he gets leave,
we are to go wandering off shooting and fishing
in all kinds of wild places. How different
it will be to going about  even if I ever
lictd gone about  with papa and mamma !
Then, we should have had engaged carriages,
and private rooms, and all the rest of it. I
should never have so much as got down to
a table dliote, not I. How Frederick would
laugh if he knew the sort of way we do
things ! I know there has been an idea
floating about lately of a trip next summer.

A trip *? Oh, I can guess the sort of trip it
would have been ! Thank you, mamma ; I'll
leave it for Catherine now, if you please.
But Frederick and I together, what fun we
will have ! He likes fun as much as I do.
Even now the change has besun, for I am
to be taken to the flower-show after all, and
he scouted the very idea of our places being
filled up at the luncheon. He said that all
his fellows would want to see me, and be
introduced. What fun ! How grand I shall
feel ! Some of the officers are married already;
but I, as the major's wife, will take precedence
of them all, for the colonel is not here. The
idea of mamma and Aunt Julia not seeing all
this, in their absurd infatuation about Hart-land
! I hope their eyes are opened at last.
Why, Portland went over on purpose to give
his support to Frederick  at least I am sure
he did. Frederick said he was so very kind

about it. Frederick said ")

Miss Eosamund, you will never be finished
if you don't stand still a moment."

Oh yes, yes, yes. Yes, Esther, I shall, 
I will,  I am finished. There's a good Esther.
What ? Have I not washed my hands yet ?
Oh, this nice hot water," plunging in the round
dimpled arms, " oh  how  nice ! The second
gong ! Dear me ! Dear me ! Coming  coming
 coming. My little gold locket, Esther.
Oh, not that stupid old thing. The tiny one
with the ruby, and the thin gold band for the
neck. There, that's it," bending her neck to
have the clasp fastened. " There now, Fm
off." And light as a swallow she skimmed
down the broad oaken staircase, just as Major
Gilbert appeared in the hall from another set
of chambers.

He caught her in his arms  and Lady Caroline
saw it.

They did not know she was there, and no
one ever knew why she had been there, but
there she was. Slowly making her way across
the ante-room, whose door stood always open
a way she had never been known to take
before, since it was a distinct round from her

own dressing-room  Lady Caroline had been
arrested by sounds from without, and turning
round to seek the cause, she was an involuntary
beholder of a spectacle which made every
vein tingle.

There was Eosamund, her beautiful, brilliant
young daughter, her wild, half-blown rosebud,
the one human being who had stirred a spark
of natural feeling in her cold and selfish nature,
for whom in her heart she had prognosticated
a gorgeous destiny, and mapped out
what that destiny should be  and there,
holding her in his embrace, was the man
who had frustrated her hopes, and set her
will at defiance I

Poor Gilbert ! Little did he know the
agony he was inflicting. His affectionate,
exulting, monopolising attitude ought perhaps
to have been kept for another and a more
secluded spot ; but still, he might have been
forgiven, or at least Lady Caroline might have
turned away her eyes. Lie did neither. With
deliberate tread she advanced to the doorway,

and like the knell of doom sounded her leaden
accents, "Eosamund, I want you."

Gilbert's arms fell by his side ; Eosamund
almost spurted from his embrace ; and both
flashed with vexation.

Pray remember," said Lady Caroline, loud
enough for each offender to hear, '' that there
are others in this house beside yourselves.
Do not let this occur again ! " and the chill,
measured tones seemed to clank like a prison
chain round the bright, free moment gone
before.

Could mamma ever have been young ?
Could she ever have loved ? " muttered the
now humbled and indignant girl, following
her parent with sullen, shamefaced steps, and
not even reassured by the presence of her
fellow-criminal ; " how unkind, how cruel of
her to-night of all nights, to speak to me like
that ! And I had really been feeling sorry for
her ; I had meant to win her round ; I had
thought the worst was past. Oh, if mamma
is going to be like that, how it will spoil

everything for the present. I wonder how
she can  I do wonder how she can ! "

She looked at her mother. What a worn,
fretted, wrinkled face was that ! A spasm
seemed to cross the brow and contract the corners
of the mouth as she took the arm which
Gilbert could not choose but offer, subsequently.
Not a single word did she address
to him. She could not. It was as if the
power of controlling or disguising her feelings
were gone. All were against her  her husband,
her daughter, her guest, the very servants
who stood behind her chair,  and they
had overborne her by their weight ; but such
was still her power, that they were awed and
uneasy in her presence. The greatness of her
affliction subdued their joy. The gloom upon
her brow was harder to withstand than any
open frown.

In vain did the combined forces struggle for
serenity, for cheerfulness, and ease. The dancing
light in Eosamund's eyes died out completely
ere the terrible meal was over ; and

long, long before the last dish had gone its
round, her lover had given up attempting
conciliation.

Of the three, the one who faced her ladyship
from his seat at the bottom of the table was
the least concerned. Mr Liscard had asserted
himself for once like a wise man, and from
that wisdom-point he did not mean to budge
but, having done so much, he had no notion
of bestirring himself further. The young
people might smooth their owen path, for him.
They had his sanction for treading it together, 
but his sanction and his support were two very
different things ; and he did not, if the truth
were told, find that he cared very particularly
whether his support were needed or not. It
had suited his notions of selfish ease to permit
his daughter to choose her own lot, and as the
lot chosen would effectually take her off his
hands, it was next to nothing to him whether
the way to it were set with thorns or roses. If
Lady Caroline made herself unbearable, it was
but hastening the wedding-day, and lie could

VOL. II. B

endure that ; his principal reflection being, as
we have seen, that for a man with twelve children,
the having one of them creditably, comfortably,
and completely disposed of was too
good a thing to be despised.

Even the mother's rage and disappointment
were more respectable than the father's callous
indifference.

 I suppose we must not slip ofl" anywhere
by ourselves, must we ? " whispered Gilbert,
when at length the wearisome repast was over,
and the party had re-assembled as lugubrious
as before, in the drawing-room. He really felt
as if he must escape the tainted atmosphere,
poor fellow; it choked him, strangled him,
unnerved and bewildered him. He had not
expected it. With some pardonable self-complacency
he had anticipated a little surprise,
and a considerable relenting on Lady Caroline's
part, once he had made his offer with its
appropriate accompaniments ; and that, instead
of this, he should be met with not only
increased acerbity of countenance, but with

the addition of a silence so profoundest
hopeless, and so impenetrable, that all seemed
to quail before it, was discomfiting beyond
measure.

He would not, however, suffer himself to be
quite snuffed out. If he durst not speak to
his love, nor touch her, nor hardly look at her
before her jailer, he would make a shift to
evade the jailer's watchfulness. " What do
you say ? Can we run ofi' '? To the library,
or somewhere ? " he suggested, accordingly.

The pair were by the piano, to which Rosamond
had betaken herself, under the pretext
of arranging some music, on the opening of
the dining-room door, and the approach of her
father and lover. It was, she well knew, the
farthest spot to which she might go, away
from that motionless figure on the large,
solemn sofa at the other end.

Is not this far enough ? " and she glanced
round, with a smile.

By Jove ! no. I should just say not. 1
have so much to say to you."

Have you ? "

May I come over early tomorrow ? "

'' Oh yes  to luncheon."

Not till luncheon ? "

Mamma does not care for visitors before
then, you know."

But I don't come to see ' mamma " protested
Gilbert, laughing ; ''I should never
think of intruding upon ' mamma ' at all," he
added, maliciously. " You could meet me
outside, couldn't you '? "

Perhaps I could  at least I think so  if
if," said Eosamund, with another hurried
glance round,  for after all, she was but a
simple girl, and all unversed in the pretty ways
of our modern belles,  " if mamma does not
mind ; but I think she would perhaps rather
you came to the house." She could stand up
and defy her mother to her face, but she would
never deceive her, she would not put out her
foot by a single step on a slippery way.

Gilbert, looking at her, saw this, and in his
heart approved. {" Jolly good little creature,"

he thought. '* No underhand tricks about her.
She did not even see that I meant to propose
she should hold her tongue, so I'll hold my
own now")

Well, ask mamma ; and say I am coming
to take you for a walk, or something," he suggested,
good-humouredly. " She cannot object
to that, surely ?"

''Oh no. But, Major Gilbert "

'' Major Gilbert ! I say ! "

What is it ? " quoth Miss Innocent, saucily.

"major Gilbert' indeed! And didn't I
make you say the other three times running,
before I would let you off this afternoon ? "

"Oh, but give me time, just a few days'
time," with a glad little laugh ; " this has
come about so quickly ; and I hardly know 
I don't know how I feel at all to-night."

Why, that is just what I want to teach
you," cried Gilbert, who was not inclined to
begin the lesson under surveillance ; " but how
on earth am I ever to do it if we are to be
always like this, in the middle of everybody ?

I wish you could see some of the houses I goto
; they have regular mischief rooms  call
them mischief rooms  which the girls and
boys go off to, when they want to get out of
the way, you know. Have their own little
games, you know. I used to be rather a hand
at that sort of thing myself,  but it was all byway
of joke,  I only did it because others did.
I never really cared for any girl until ''

Oh, take care ! " Eosamund involuntarily
stepped back a pace, with reddening
brow. In his earnestness he had overlooked
the men-servants, who, with the tea and coffee
trays, were at his elbow, and she felt at the
moment that, much as he might have to teach
her, she had also something to teach him. He
must learn to have more regard for appearances.

She now proposed music, hastily. *' I will
ask mamma if she would not like a song," she
suggested, crossing the room ; but Gilbert was
nearly sure that the request, which was presently
brought back, had never emanated from
Lady Caroline. Her reception of the timid

overture, her averted head, and the stubborn
immobility of her form, were all rightly interpreted
by him ; it was possible that she had
spoken  he did not think she had done as
much  but she might; if so, however, he
could have sworn that nothing but a withering
permission to do as she chose had been
accorded the petitioner.

"Treats my little girl as if she were the
dirt of the earth," muttered the incensed lover
to himself. 'sand to-night, too, when one
would think a mother with any feeling at all
but she hasn't a particle. People say she is
proud of Rosamund, but Til be hanged if I seethe
force of such pride ! She has astonished
even me, has that woman, though I did think
I knew her by this time. Who would have
believed that she could mean to keep up her
vile animosity even now ? Well, if it comes
to a tug of war, she'll get the worst of it ; so
look out, old lady. I must knuckle under for
the present, but by-and-by, Lady Caroline, by-and-by
" and he sat down to the piano.

Can I have a little more light ? "

Eosamund turned to the nearest attendant.
'' Another pair of candles, William, please."

That pair on the mantelpiece, that will
do," amended Gilbert, accustomed to order
things as he would ; " here, bring those, will
you"

' I think mamma likes to have a pair
there," said Rosamund, gently. " William
will bring some more in a minute." Unconsciously
he had been on the eve of violating
one of the greater proprieties of the place, 
he had desired to disarrange the furniture
without so much as a reference to its liege
lady.

But the sea-song was heard at last, nevertheless
; and one person present, at all events,
enjoyed hearing it, and hearing it for the first
time. Mr Liscard had an ear for, and a love
of music, and he now felt that he had never
been better nor less troublesomely entertained.
The deadly dulness of his usual home-evenings
made the present welcome contrast felt the

more. He was not required to say anything,
nor to do anything ; he could spread himself
out in his low chair, con his scientific journals
by the light of the shaded lamp at his elbow ;
and the melodious strains of the distant singer,
so far from disturbing his comfort, acted as an
agreeable sedative.

He was really sorry when at length they
ceased, and Gilbert rose to go.

It struck him that a son-in-law who could
thus provide his own entertainment would be
rather an acquisition to the party than otherwise
; and as he roused himself to wish a cordial
good night," it was with no disapproval that
he beheld the tall figure turn its broad back
on him and Lady Caroline alike, as both Rosamond's
hands were held fast in those of her
lover.

Eosamund's papa charitably put out his
lamp. That gave him something to do, and
he had a weakness for economising light  the
only economy he ever practised. He now
busied himself getting his fingers under the

shade, turning round the button, and peering
over the funnel to see if all were right ; and
even when the manoeuvre was over, he did
not immediately obtrude himself upon the
young couple. It made him almost angry to
see his wife, drawn up to her full height, loom
portentously forth from her seclusion ere anything
more could pass ; and he had never in
his life been so near snubbing her ladyship in
public, as when she bade him ring the bell the
next moment.

The bell was to be rung, for Major Gilbert
to be shown out ; and the tone in which Lady
Caroline desired that such should be done,
might have fittingly conveyed a command for
his never behoof shown in ao;ain.

He never was shown in again  to her.

CHAPTER XVI.

"you can't mean that?"

Clauses strange,
Disastrous accidents, and change
Come to us all ;
Even in the most exalted state,
Relentless sweeps the stroke of fate ;
The strongest fall."

Longfellow.

"Fine old place, but a shade sepulchral,"
quoth Major Gilbert to himself, as he stood
on the doorstep at King's Common the following
morning, awaiting a response to his summons.
" Rows of closed windows ain't lively.
I suppose there are windows open somewhere
about the house, but it is a pity they don't
show in front. Lord ! how can people get on
without fresh air, and on a day like this,'
too \ "  for a soft and balmy south wind was

gently fanning the tree-tops ; and the closed
windows, which had, moreover, their blinds
drawn uncompromisingly down, certainly did
seem to have an unreasonable ill-will against
it. "What a time they are in answering''
cried he next, with a lover's impatience. But
the next moment the door was noiselessly
opened.

Any one at home ? "

He had made up his mind that he would
not ask for Lady Caroline. If Lady Caroline
chose to see him, and to be civil to him, welland
good ; he would make an effort to be civil
in return, and preserve, in so far as he could, a
decent appearance of having nothing to resent
and forgive  but he was not going to be the
one to make the advance. Whether she were
in or out on this morning should not matter
to him an iota.

During the previous evening he had realised
that if he ever meant to hold his own with
his future mother-in-law  and this he most
distinctly did mean  he must not lose a

moment. He must get his hand in at once,
brace himself persistently to disregard frowns
and slights, and treat her ladyship with an
easy, unconscious indifference which he was
shrewd enough to perceive would be more
galling than any amount of retaliation.

He would not be rude, but neither would
he be vulnerable. He would present an impervious
front, and baffle every attack by appearing
not to perceive it. He would not let
anything about the blue gown obtain the
mastery over him. Accordingly his "Any one
at home ? " tripped readily out, and seemed
to stand in need of no reply, for the speaker
was on the mat within, wiping the mud from
his boots  being a man of cleanly habits  the
next minute ; and it was not until he had put
down his hat and stick, and pulled out his
pocket-handkerchief, and stood ready to be
preceded across the hall, that he perceived
anything unusual about the man who had
let him in.

It was a young under-footman who had

done so, and who now stood by his side, the
picture of awkward, nervous hesitation, most
evidently at a loss how to proceed in a
moment of difficulty.

"Hey! What's the matter r' demanded
the visitor, stopping short in surprise, while
half-a-dozen conjectures  all unpleasant ones
flashed into his brain at once.

Was there going to be any trouble ahead 1
Was yesterday's work capable of being undone
to-day '? Had mischief been brewing in the
night 1 Eosamund, what of her ? Her evident
timidity and awe of her mother recurred,
like lightning, to his memory. Had, then, that
unappeasable woman re-obtained her wonted
rule, and already stolen a march upon him,
laid hands upon his betrothed, locked her up,
cancelled all promises, and ordered the doors
to be shut upon himself? Had she  could
she  have dared to do this 1

That something was strangely amiss was
but too evident, and the thing to discover was
what ?

*' We have had a terrible misfortune in the
night, sir."

Gilbert drew a long breath of relief. What
was a terrible misfortune to him ? That
would certainly not have been the fashion in
which his dismissal would have been made
known, and on that point all his present
uneasiness and anxiety centred.

Oh, indeed ! " he said, with infinite comfort.
" What is it, eh ? But never mind ;
show me in, and I'll soon hear."

I  I  I really don't know, sir ; her ladyship,
sir "

Confound it ! let's have an end of this,"
cried Gilbert, with excusable impatience ;
"say what you have got to say, and have
done with it. I can't stop here all day while
you hum and liar. Show me in to Lady
Caroline," he added, in a sort of desperation,
and turned towards the inner hall.

But this was too much. " Stop, sir, stop ! "
and William stepped back a pace ; the next
moment out came the thunderbolt, '' Her

ladyship is dead, sir. Lord ! " cried the
poor young fellow, raising his two hands and
letting them fall again, to enforce the full import
of his words.

'' Good God ! " exclaimed Gilbert, glued to
the ground whereon he stood. " Her ladyship
is  lovat ? "

*' Yes, indeed, sir."

"Do you mean  but no, you can't mean
that? You can't possibly mean that Lady
Caroline is  good heavens ! " wiping his brow.
Eh '?  what 1  eh '? Speak out, and speak
plain, for God's sake, so that I can understand.

Did you say that Lady Caroline is '? " but

lie could not articulate the word himself.

Found dead in her bed this morning, sir.
'Tis an awful thing, sir," and the speaker
looked indeed white and scared, for the news
was scarce cold. " They thought at first it
was a fit ; and the maids and Mrs Ossory was
an hour in the room trying what they could
do to bring her ladyship round,  but it was
no use. And now the doctors have just gone,

and they say she must have been dead at the
first. Dr Makin brought another gentleman
with him to make sure. You must have met
them in the drive, sir. They ain't been gone
many minutest

"No. I came the other way. But how 
what  good heavens ! I can't think. I never
heard anything more awful. Found dead in
her bed, and she seemed as well as any of us
only last night ! Was any reason given ? Is
she supposed to have been ill 1 Have they
any idea how it was ? "

"I heard Mrs Ossory say as how her ladyship
is supposed to have been ailing a longtime,
sir ; and Mrs Ossory thinks she often
noticed that her ladyship was not herself at
all of late. Mrs Ossory thinks that perhaps
it was the fright on Wednesday "

Wednesday ? What  about the boy in
the stream, do you mean '? Oh, but Lady
Caroline was as right as possible long after
that ; though certainly, to be sure  hum 
ah  she did seem uncommonly silent and

VOL. II. c

out of spirits last night. She certainly did
that."

'' Yes, sir. So Mrs Ossory says, sir."

'' Bless me  I never was so shocked in my
life ! " continued Gilbert, pulling his long
moustache ; and, for once in his life, completely
at fault in respect of his next move.
Should he depart or remain % He looked at
William, and William looked at him, irresolution
upon either face;  but the result was that
they moved solemnly across the hall together.

Lady Julia and Lord Portland is here,
sir," whispered the man, as he opened the
drawing-room door ; but it did not appear
that he meant they were in the room, for it
was empty, as a single glance showed.

Gilbert gazed mutely round.

He was inexpressibly bewildered and appalled,
but it would be impossible to deny
that he experienced also another sensation,
and one equally novel to him at the moment
he breathed freely. For once in his life he
heard the handle turn in the door, and stepped

forward upon the soft carpet witling without a
qualm ; for once he advanced from behind the
arose screen which oiarded the entrance
without trepidation ; and for the first time he
looked straight up and down, and round and
round the spacious, gloomy apartment.

That it partook still of Lady Caroline at
every pore was surely natural, yet it struck
him as curious. He had almost expected to
see an instantaneous upheaval and revulsion ;
but there was the davenport, the chair, the
piano to whose refuge he had on the previous
evening betaken himself, the pillar by which
she had bidden him her stony 'good night''
that " good night " to which there would
never now be a " good morrow."

Every window was darkened, and the place
was sunk in gloom. It occurred to him asa
strange first thought, that he now knew
why the outer aspect of the mansion had
struck him as funereal.

It is the most awful thing," he murmured,
and stood upright in the middle of the floor,

not caring to take a scat. " Upon my word,
I scarcely know how to believe it is true. To
think that only last night she was sitting
over there, hiding her face behind her fan,
poor thing ; and who knows what she was
seeking to hide besides 1 For she was one of
those women who would endure anything
rather than pity ; and if she was in pain 
why, I have been a brute to be so hard upon
her. I wonder if she was in pain ! I feel
ashamed to think of it all, if she was. But
who was ever to know this was going to happen
? Who would have guessed that the poor
creature would be dead and gone before another
day came 1 Well, Tm glad we parted in peace.
I am uncommonly glad we had had no row of
any sort; and no one now need ever know
that she was not over fond of me. I must try
and forget it myself; and, by Jove ! I will."

Then he paused, and took up the strain
again.

"There's her davenport now  queer and
strange it looks already. It was beastly of

me to write that letter at it last nisfht  I
would not touch it with a pair of tongs today.
What can have been the matter with
her ? She did not look the subject for heart
complaint. No doubt it was the heart,
though : and that made her more snappish
than she need have been. Certainly she
would never have been sweet. But nothing
is so bad for the temper as anything wrong
with the heart. . So Portland's here. He
got on better with her than anybody did. . . .
Lady Julia will feel it. She's the right sortis
Julia. Lord, what a difference between
those two ! . It won't make much odds to
the husband. Cicero's and Kant's stomachs
will go on all the same. . . . Our marriage
will have to wait a bit, I suppose. That won't
be such a nuisance, as if  as it would have
been. We shall be able to do pretty much
as we please now, we two. . . . What an
alteration this Avill make about the whole
place ! No one will know it soot. Well, it
is ill speaking harm of the dead, else I must

say''  and he drew a long, broad-chested
breath  " I know how I feel, though I wouldn't
put it into words for the world."

His reverie had barely been brought to this
appropriate close, ere the door opened and Lord
Portland entered.

The two shook hands in silence.

Then Gilbert burst forth impetuously. " I
never had such a shock in my life."

His companion nodded, and the two sat
down.

"When did you hear?" asked the major,
next.

Directly after breakfast. They had been
trying to revive her for some time then."

"When do you suppose it took place ? "

Makin  that's our doctor  thinks, just
before rising. The maids say she was still
warm when they took her in hand, and they
used all sorts of restoratives at once."

' With no effect?"

Oh no ; she had been dead before they
began."

'' Alas her husband not on the spot ? Was
he no good ? "

Not at all. He was in his dressing-room
you know he is an early riser  and he
thinks now he heard her call, but supposed
at the time she was speaking to her maid.
She had certainly striven to rise, for she was
lying half across the bed."

"Has  have you seen Rosamond?" said
Gilbert, next. " You know it was all settled
between us yesterday, don't you ? I was here
till late last night."

I heard it was all right," replied Lord
Portland, putting out his hand quietly. " This
is rather rough on you ; but you will help to
comfort them all, Rosamund especially. She
is with her aunt now."

Shall  do you think I ought to go away '? "
inquired Gilbert, who had been asking the
same question of himself for the last five minutes,
without being able to answer it to his
satisfaction. " Of course I am not a relation

I mean one of the family yet ; and I should
not like to intrude if "

*' Oh no," said Portland, with a faint smile,
'' it could not be called intruding. You have
a right to stay, and I should say my cousin
would be disappointed if you left. She will
see you presently."

'' What is being done ? "

The usual things," and Portland took up
a paper-knife and played with it absently.
After which, the two sat a long time in
silence, gazing for relief into the fire.

It is an awful thing," at last observed
Gilbert. It would be wrong to say that he
enjoyed the awfulness, but certainly he had
never supposed he could feel so easy, so comfortably
solemn and subdued, as he now did
in taking free possession of the large armchair
 Mr Liscard's own evening chair  and
preparing to bear his part in whatever woful
contingencies should arise. What a blessed
thing it was that he had actually spoken, and
had had his affair settled ! Had he delayed a

single day, it might have been weeks before
he could with decency have come forward ;
added to which, he could have had none of
the melancholy distinction which he now foresaw,
in wearing mourning for, and attending
the obsequies of the great lady. He would
even have lost the honour of that morning's
admission, and the sharing of Portland's silent
watch.

At present there was nothing more for either
to do but to watch and wait. An unearthly
hush pervaded the mansion ; only now and
again a door being closed with ostentatious
deliberation betrayed the presence of other inmates
; the servants were in their own wing ;
the children in their equally remote quarters ;
and all the other members of the family were
gathered in the upper chambers.

All, wheresoever assembled, trod noiselessly,
and spoke below their breaths. The reaction
had not yet begun ; and even the very little
ones in the nursery were content with the
novelty of being supplied with unusual toys

and sweetmeats, and suffered themselves to
be suppressed, and neglected.

"I suppose the arrangements will devolve
on you ? " said Gilbert, presently.

'' I will give any help I can."

'' The boys arc too young to be much
good."

And the two eldest are ant school."

There is no one, then ? "

'' I fancy Mr Liscard will be able to express
his own wishes ; and though I have not
seen him. yet, he knows I am here, and can
send for me when he chooses."

The funeral can't well take place before
the middle of the week."

"No."

Then another silence.

I am glad I came over early," said Gilbert,
nursing his knee reflectively. " This happened
to be an easy day, and I was tempted."

What o'clock is it now ? "

Not twelve yet. I meant to have had a
walk or drive or something, and was here by

half-past eleven. But now,"  and he dolefully
shook his head.

At length Rosamond came down.

She had been weeping, poor child, and at
sight of the two figures who rose respectfully
to receive her, tears flowed afresh. Until a
few hours ago she had never known death,
and had had indeed but little to do with the
realities of life. So terrible, so frightful a jar
upon the even tenor of her days was not to
be at once comprehended, and was scarcely
to be looked upon but with horror and amazement.
Her mother dead  sone for ever 
snatched away without a parting word or
sign ! The thing seemed too monstrous for
belief; and almost as one in a dream, she
had clung and wept, soothed by Lady Julia's
expansive, wholesome, and very real sympathetic
tribulation. It had been an effort to
leave her, even to come down and meet her
lover  and yet it had been something to have
a lover to come to.

She had heard that Portland was with Gilbert,

and had well known how quickly the
former would depart on her approach; and
indeed he had instantly begun to consider
how best to do so, when there was a tap at
the door, which made all turn their heads.
A tap at the door  at that door  at a door
that never was, and never was meant to be
tapped upon !

What could it portend 'i

Only a housemaid entering with a message.

*jane!" exclaimed her young lady, the
moisture frozen on her eyelids,  " Jane !
what is the meaning of this 1 "

Jane saw her mistake. In the general disarrangement
of everything, it had been agreeable
to discharge an errand which was not in
her ordinary round of duties, and she had felt
secure of its passing unnoticed. She now
looked foolish enough. "Mr Badeley is out,
miss, and William and John wasn't in the
servants' hall nor pantry, and "

And you could not fetch them ? " said
Rosamund, in a tone that made the girl

shrink. " How dare you ? Go tins instant,
and never let such a thing occur again. The
idea of her presuming ! " she continued passionately,
as the intruder vanished. *just
because  just because  she would as soon
have thought of flying as doing such a thing
yesterday. And now ! " and her tears burst
forth afresh. It had been the first signal of
the change.

"I had better go and see what she came
about, however," said Portland, making use
of the notion. " One of us is wanted, I imagine."
And he left the room.

All that day he was very little to be seen,
and yet his presence was felt everywhere.

Insensibly one and all came to lean on him
for directions and suggestions, for Major Gilbert
was still too much of a stranger to bear
the part he would otherwise have done, and
it was due to Lord Portland that the principal
benefit which could have been conferred
on the mourning house came to it in the shape
of Lady Julia, who took up her abode there 

not altogether to please herself  for the first
week.

Eosamund ought to have you with her,"
said Portland.

You mean because of her engagement ? "

Yes."

"I did hope  I did hope  oh, my dear
Portland, is it really, absolutely, irremediably
settled ? Is there no way out of it 1 Must it
be 1 The dear child was always so impulsive,
so impetuous ; and it all happened so rapidly
that I had a kind of feeling as if this great

loss might ; '' and she looked wistfully

into bis face. Somehow or other she had
fancied that her sister dead, niiorht have been
able to effect what living she had failed to do.
She was so set against it, poor, poor dear,"
she murmured.

He was silent ; he could not now say, as at
another time he might and would have said,
' unreasonably and foolishly set against it ; "
but neither would he acquiesce, nor hold out
hopes which were most unlikely to be fulfilled.

I am sure if the dear child wishes me to
be here, I will stay," sighed Lady Julia, seeing
this, " but it will be a painful, painful
thing to do. If indeed you would come
also ? 

But that he could not do.

"My brother-in-law will not be always in
his own rooms, will he ? '"' was her next timorous
inquiry.

Your presence will draw him from them
sooner than anything else."

And  and  of course I will remain if you
wish me to do so ; but I must have my
Hannah  or no, old Charlotte would be better
 and some clothes  and oh, dear, there
will be the mourning to be seen to. And all
those poor children's mourning also."

'you see you are really needed here, Aunt
Julia."

'* Well, my dear, well ; I don't say I am
not," resignedly.

Rosamund is too young to have the charge
of everything."

"Much, much too young."

*' And she has her own prospects to think
of too."

Lady Julia groaned. Then out it all came
again. " I cannot like this Major Gilbert. I
care not what he has, or can offer. He is not
worthy of her. He can never become one of
us. While you "

While 1 1 " said Portland, with a smile, as
she stopped short. " You think I should have
done better for my cousin I " he continued,
after a moment.

A hundred thousand times better. And
had he not come across her path just now,
and had she not, as it were, been driven to
him by  oh, I know, I see how it was. But
for that, she could, she would, she must have
loved you ! "

Was it fancy, or did she see a strange expression
pass over his face as she spoke ?

He did not answer her. He did not speak
again for some time.

At length he roused himself abruptly, as

was bis wont after concluding a matter in his
own mind. " Look here, aunt : it is not forme
to dictate to you, but I will tell you
plainly what my own feelings are about
Major Gilbert. It is nothing to me, and
ought to be nothing, that, as a companion,
he is not strictly to my taste. He does not
suit me ; but what of that ? It appears he
suits Rosamund ; and it is surely better that
she should marry a man made of good sterling
stuff, even although he be not pre-eminently
a gentleman, than a fool with any
amount of polish on the surface ? "

"But all men are not either boors or
fools '? " plaintively murmured she.

But she was not to get out her say.

*' It is useless to expect that such a girl as
Rosamund will not choose for herself," pursued
Portland, looking steadily in front of
him. " Major Gilbert is quite the sort of
hero to take her fancy."

Hero ? Oh, I had forgotten ! '' and Lady
Julia's eyelids dropped again. " Dear, dear !

VOL. II. D

what an age ago that seems ! Certainly we
ought not to forget that good deed."

It has come down to being a ' good deed,'
has it?"

"But, then, I never dreamed of this to
follow."

Would that have altered your opinion 1 "

My opinion is, that he ought never to
have allowed himself to think of entering our
family," averred the high-born spinster, with
sudden asperity. " I must say that I do like
people to know their places ; and I must say,
too, Portland, that, knowing all you know, I
think it was hardly kind," and her poor voice
quavered with the unwonted accusation,
"hardly quite fair, or kind of you, to be on
his side."

' My dear aunt, he never asked me to be
on his side ; as a matter of fact, I was not 
perhaps I am not particularly on his side now,
but it is nothing to him whether I am or
no. He fell in love with my cousin, without
saying ' By your leave ' to any one ; and it

was only when it was patent to all that she
she cared for him in return, that it seemed
to me they were both being hardly dealt
with'

'' But you certainly spoke of him with
admiration the other day "? "

So did you ; " and he half smiled.

But you went on after you knew of this ;
after Rosamund had sent over the news, last
night."

Which at once checkmated your enthusiasm.
But you see, ma'am, somehow it did
not act so spontaneously on mine. I admire
Gilbert as much as I ever did ; I admire his
pluck and nerve, his self-reliance and self-devotion.
I think he did a thing that day which
only a fellow who was in many respects 
and substantial respects  a fine fellow, could
have done. And I honour Eosamund," he
added, slowly, "for having the courage to see
this, and value at his true worth, a downright,
straightforward soldier, who will do his best
to make her happy. She is above minding

his small, trifling deficiencies. She sets us allan
example. I, for one, am resolved to profit
by it. In the light in which she sees her
future husband, I too will look upon him,
and," he added emphatically, " I will look
upon him in no other."

Well, I shall never like him ; but I will
suffer him," conceded the unfortunate Lady
Julia, with the air of a martyr.

CHAPTER XVII.

THE REACTION BEGINS.

But some so like to thorns or nettles live,
That none for them can, when they perish, grieve,"

Waller.

No one ever hinted that Lady Caroline's
untimely end had any connection with her
daughter's ensaoement, although news of the
two events got abroad at the same time. It
was not to be supposed that her austere
nature could have been seriously disturbed
by ordinary emotions ; and that emotions
extraordinary had been induced was of course
a secret confined to the initiated few. But
even the home circle at King's Common, and
the two who were almost a part of it at the
Abbey  even these, who had been witnesses

of lier discomfiture, and had marked its rise and
progress, were unaware of the depths to which
the iron had entered the proud woman's soul.

They were now ready to feel sure that she
had been failing for some time past, and one
could adduce one little instance, one another,
which had not been noticed at the time, but
which, in the new light thrown upon everything,
started to memory, and gave support
to the welcome supposition. Lady Julia was
happily positive that her poor dear suffering
sister had been misjudged throughout her life
by reason of the infirmities caused by this
secret malady ; while Rosamond was equally
fortunate in her divination that her mother's
attitude towards Major Gilbert had been the
outcome of this same internal martyrdom.
It had chafed her spirit and blinded her
vision, causing her to look upon everything
and everybody with jaundiced eyes. Poor
mamma ! And Lady Caroline was forgiven
and compassionate, and reverently made
allowance for on all hands.

Gilbert alone in his heart knew better. As
soon as the first softening influences of the
shock had passed away, and he could dispassionately
look the catastrophe in the face,
the instinctive conviction gained upon him
that deep - seated mortification, a sense of
defeat, trouble, and wrath which could find
no outlet, had hastened her ladyship's demise.
The force and weight and hopelessness of the
evil had been more than that proud and
stubborn spirit could bear ; and debarred
from every source of consolation, and consumed
with a bitterness of disappointment of
which the world must perceive nothing, the
moment had been too favourable for an
insidious malady not to seize upon for an
attack, beneath which she had sunk unresisting.


Thus, while Lady Julia, Portland, Rosamund,
and all who were charitably disposed
towards the dead, attributed her mental and
spiritual shortcomings to a physical cause,
Gilbert changed the order of precedence ; and

Gilbert was in the right. It was  it had
been  as he thought.

"To think that she should actually have
gone and died out of spite ! Upon my Avoid,"
quoth he to himself, as he sat with lugubrious
visage in a mourning-coach  '' upon my word,
we are well quit of her." And such being his
rumination, it is not to be wondered at that
he was not quite so happy in his demeanour
nor observations as he might have been that
day. Up till then he had got on very well ;
but the funeral over, his spirits rose, and do
what he would, he continually forgot not to
be cheerful, nor to move about with too brisk
a step.

Now, to the youthful Rosamond, with all
the redundancy of vigorous life glowing in her
veins, this first great check which it had ever
met, was, from the very fact of its being the
first, gigantic in the magnitude of its proportions.


We grow on easier terms with sorrow as we
advance in years.

But to the very young, the presence of a
first death is in itself a fearful and appalling
thing; and when, through the advent of the
grim destroyer, the ruling spirit of the place
is laid low, and the irrevocable deed makes
itself felt in all that is said and done, and in
every circumstance, however slight, of daily
life, there is apt to be an exaggeration of the
manifestation of woe ; a feeling as if it were
hardly right to move, to stir, to occupy the
dreary hours in any way; to open a book,
unless it be a devout one ; or broach a
topic, unless it have reference to the passing
scene.

Accordingly, the poor child, and indeed all
the poor children, did their best to act up to
the prescribed formula. Catherine, who was by
nature prone to display, flourished her black-edged
handkerchief, drew down the corners
of her mouth, and settled with herself that
speech of every kind was unbecoming. Dolly,
who was of another mould, easily affected to
what her brothers, brother-like, denominated

'blubbering," having "blubbered" at every
point of the proceedings, more especially at
meal-times  being incited thereto by an extra
performance of her sister's handkerchief  was
now able, from sheer weakness, to rain tears
at nothing. The little ones naturally followed
the lead thus given ; were more unhappy in
their enforced holiday than they had ever
been in lesson hours ; hated the dark house
and the drawn-down blinds ; and construed a
general sense of misery and discomfort, into
grief for a mother whom otherwise they would
hardly have missed.

In sorrow far more real herself, their tenderhearted
aunt would fain have sought to cheer
and comfort,  but unfortunately she had taken
a severe cold almost immediately after her
installation at King's Common, lost her voice,
and been finally obliged to keep to bed.
Never was a good soul more ashamed of herself
; and although far from being the useless
burden, by which term she reproached herself,
it is certain that the reed on which Portland

had meant his young cousin to lean, was for
the nonce a broken one. There was now no
one to do anything for anybody.

I never saw more unfortunate small fry,"
muttered Gilbert to himself. "It is too bad
that no one does a thing to sprightly them
up ; and though they have been bullied and
trodden down all their lives by a woman who
ought never to have been a mother at all, they
are taught now to look as if it would be a
sin ever to smile ao;ain because she is prone."

'let's have the children down," said he to
Eosamund, suddenly.

Down ! " exclaimed she, in surprise.
'' Where  "

Here, in the drawing-room. I daresay
they are feeling bad, and it was hard on them
to be hustled out of sight the moment we
came home from the funeral. Let's all sit
round the fire and tell stories, and chirp the
poor things up a bit."

If he had only put the suggestion differently!
She tried to think it was kind and

thoughtful; but as it now stood, it seemed
almost a profanation of the days

He never liked poor mamma," she said to
herself. "But still Frederick should hardly
have talked of ' the funeral ' in that tone tome.
I daresay he did not mean it. I am
sure he did not know how it sounded ; but 
I wish he had not."

'' Well, shall I go and fetch them '? " inquired
he, innocently.

Eosamund hesitated. "It is not their time
for being in the drawing-room. I think perhaps
Miss Penrose would be surprised by their
being sent for now."

Surprised ! You don't mean to say they
are doing lessons ? By Jove ! "

Certainly not," said Rosamund, quickly,
while a gleam of displeasure shot from her
eye. "How could you suppose it?"

I did not suppose it ; I thought it hardly
credible ; but I must say I have seen so much
that has astonished me about your mother's
ways with the children   "

"Frederick!"

He liasteDecl to apologise. "It is my
ignorance, of course, Eosamund. Why, how
is it likely I should know ? I have never
been in the way of youngsters. I daresay
I should have spoilt them awfully if I
had."

I am sure you would," rejoined she, only
half appeased. " And of course you cannot
understand. Children have to be subject to
rules and hours. It was the same with me
when I was under Miss Penrose, yet no one
ever said I was hardly dealt with."

The old story of the foxes and their tails,"
quoth he, jocularly. " As Miss Eosamund
Liscard had her tail cut short, so must Miss
Catharine and Miss Dolly, and all the rest
of the misses. But come, I don't altogether
see it. Why should the poor things not have
better times now '? "

Oh, dont'' exclaimed Eosamund, as if he
had stung her.

It was but a little thing ; but he was always

saying, always doing such like little things.
The night before he had hurt her thus.

The fire had been hot at his back, as the
three sat at dinner  he, she, and his future
father-in-law. By the side of the fender
there stood a little screen, one of Lady Caroline's
own peculiar little comforts, which had
invariably been drawn out between her ladyship's
chair and the fireplace. It had now
been left folded reverently. No one had
dreamed of using it, until Gilbert, all unwittingly,
had risen, spread the leaf as he had
often seen it spread upon the hearth-rug, and
resumed his seat.

She had said nothing, could say nothing ;
but had experienced a glow of shame, an undefined
sensation, which was, alas ! to prove
but the faint forerunner of many such.

No one had ever expected from the bold
soldier refined perceptions or quick sensibilities
; if Rosamund had been asked, she would
probably have answered that whether he possessed
them or not was a matter of indifference

to her  but in the present circumstances
he was certainly unlucky, since no one could
have known less how to adapt himself to
them.

He now proceeded to blunder on.

I meant no harm, I am sure," he protested
; " but you must own yourself, my
dear girl, that it has been a dull day for the
poor things ; and of course they cannot settle
to anything this afternoon ; and bless me !
it's only three o'clock : what ever will they
do with themselves till tea-time? It is raining
hard, so they can't go out and run about."

I should think not  to-day."

Well, I only vex you, so I will say no
more," rejoined Gilbert, good - humoured.
*' You must forgive me, Eosamund, there's a
dear little thing," and he put his arm round
her with something of a deprecating embrace ;
I am sure I am downright sorry ever to have
mentioned the subject, for I would not do
anything to annoy you for the world."

Then all at once the clouds dispersed, the

brow cleared, and she would herself fetch the
brothers and sisters, and tell them how kind
and how good he had been to think of them
thus in their adversity.

No, she would not be put off going. She
had been stupid, and cross, and unkind, and
he could only show that he forgave her for
being so, by now letting her be herself the
messenger to the little doleful party in the
schoolroom. They would, they must be unhappy,
of course ; and poor Miss Penrose was
doubtless having a trying time keeping the
peace between one and another ; it would bea
real charity to relieve the over-weighted
governess of her burden for a time ; and away
she flew, cheered in spite of herself by her own
restored faith and affection, and thinking, poor
child, how sweet it was to have to own herself
wrong, and her master and lover right.

Of course there was astonishment and rejoicing
in the dull, dreary room when so
welcome and so unusual a summons was announced.


Catharine and Dolly, who were severally
in disgrace on the same count, were pardoned
on the spot; and all were swiftly
dismissed in search of soap, and water, and
brushes, preparatory to so important an event
as entering the drawing-room at that hour.

"Frederick has sent for you, and says he
will tell you a story," had been the delightful
message, at which even Catharine had
brightened up; and Dolly, every tear dried
as if by magic, had jumped to her feet in
ecstasy,  so that even the whispered admonition
not to be noisy and not to laugh too loud,
which the fullgrown sister thought it incumbent
on her to add, scarcely sufficed to overcloud
their outburst of sunshine.

After they had gone, Eosamund lingered
a moment. She was fain to have still more
gratitude and appreciation on Gilbert's behalf.
It seemed to her that her churlish response to
his most innocent and well-intentioned overture
had been so uncalled-for and ungracious that
she could do no less than make her present

VOL. II. E

approval of it and of him known as widely as
might be.

*' Major Gilbert is so fond of children," she
beofan, *' that he could not bear to think of the
poor little things feeling lonely and wretched ;
and of course, Miss Penrose, they cannot be
expected to understand all they have lost, so
that there can be no harm in their being 
being comforted a little, can there ? Of course,
Major Gilbert will keep them quite quiet."
(Gilbert had had no notion of doing so, although
he might possibly be depended upon
to "hush-hush" at intervals, if the giggles
threatened to penetrate too far.) "It must
be so very miserable for them," pleaded Rosamond,
who, in truth, needed only to plead
with herself.

She alone, in her heart of hearts, cared to
be honestly mourning for the dead. For the
rest, the decorous outward demonstrations of
woe sufficed, now that the first shock had
gone by ; and Miss Penrose, who had conformed
with the utmost rigour to these in

public, had been conscious of slipping ' Vanity
Fair' under the fold of her dress, and hastily
withdrawing her feet from the fender, so as
not to look too comfortable, when Rosamund's
voice had been heard in the doorway. From
her no demurs need certainly have been feared.

Indeed, I quite agree with you, and think
it only too kind and considerate of Major
Gilbert," quoth she now, promptly. " I hope
the children will not be troublesome. He
must send them back directly he is tired of
them. They have been a little trying today
"

So Major Gilbert thought  I mean, he
thought that very likely they might be, and
that you would be glad to have them taken
off your hands "

Oh, indeed ! And he thought of me too ?
Really too kind," (" and like a perfect gentleman,"
thought the little governess in her
heart). "Pray thank Major Gilbert on my
behalf, and with my compliments, Rosamund,"
desirous of rising to the occasion.

"It is such a sad day for us all," murmured
Rosamund.

"Yes, indeed," murmured Miss Penrose, in
unison. She could not help feeling as if she
had been somehow pulled up, and the faint
light faded out of her face  for she perceived
that it would not do to be brisk, even in
praise of Gilbert, just yet.

The poor children'' sighed the elder
sister.

Poor little things," echoed the governess.

Bang went a door without, followed by a
suppressed peal of laughter, scuffling of feet,
and an evident scrimmage.

What a noise they are making ! " cried
Rosamund, with a frown ; and she was hastily
proceeding to quell it, when the entrance of
the little band, all soaped and shining, and
glad with expectation, brought about a kindlier
intent. No, she would not be sharp with
them, nor expect too much of them, that day.
Their little rejoicing countenances should speak
for Gilbert, and applaud him. They should

tell himself, moreover, that he was well with
her, approved of by her, and sustained by her
in all he did at this time ; and even now 
even now, alas !  a vague intangible something
whispered that this assurance was
needed.

Come along." And Eosamund smiled
upon the group. "Come along, and don't
make a noise in the passage. Remember the
servants. They would be shocked to hear
you speak, you know "

Oh, ive won't speak, we don't want to
speak. He's to speak," cried one little voice.

He's going to tell us a story. You said
he was going to tell us a story," added
another.

About lions, I hope ? " in a boy's determined
accents.

And tigers, and camels, and elephants,"
in that of another and a smaller male.

Elephants ! " tittered all the elder ones.

Rosamund was glad to get them off: she
was dangerously near tittering herself.

Even Miss Penrose was with difficulty subduing
a cheerful countenance ; and for the
sake of decorum it was well that the scene
had not been of more than a minute's duration,
ere the door had closed, and she was
left to the unaccustomed luxury of solitude.

It had been, as we know, Lady Caroline's
code, that, lessons or not, Miss Penrose should
be on duty at all times and seasons  should
be felt, should be in the background, should
be there. There was to be no escape for her,
no freedom for her subjects; no relaxation for
the one, no chance of self-discipline for the
others. And the consequences ? Eosamund
was the first consequence  and with her only
we have to do.

But no one knew better the folly and shortsightedness
of the former scheme of life at
King's Common than the worthy preceptress
herself; and any augury of a change was
hailed by her with a most appreciative readiness.
In excellent humour, therefore, she
now hastened to her own apartment, there to

pour forth the full, feverish, and underlined
account of the two great events of the week,
to those of her particular friends for whom she
had not had time hitherto.

It is not often given to any one to have two
such pieces of intelligence as an unexpected
eno-asfement and a sudden death to relate atone
and the same time, and perhaps the chilly
little woman appreciated her luck all the more
that news of any kind was hard to get in that
secluded domain; at any rate she felt now
quite revived and animated by her pleasant
task, and we may be sure that the gallant
officer, to whose kindness and consideration
she owed the opportunity for discharging it,
did not suffer at her hands. He had another
claim, moreover, on her notice.

His rescue in the mill-dams preceding, as it
did, his offer only by twenty-four hours, had
a right to be included in her programme.
Never in her life had so much and varied
material been provided for her epithets in
so brief a period.

CHAPTER XVIII.

ONCE ! "

In the heart's attachment a woman never likes a man with ardour,
till she has suffered for his sake" Sheridan,

But is it not the strangest thing '? " cried the
Gilberts one to another, when the first shock of
the second announcement had subsided. " It
really is the very strangest thing." And it
rather added to than diminished the zest with
which they gave out Frederick's projected
alliance, that the sudden death of the titled
mother of his fiancee had been the first and
immediate result of it.

"No doubt she was overcome altogether,
poor woman," cried the soft - hearted Mrs

Gilbert, very much overcome herself by the
idea. " Yes, indeed, 'tis too true, Maria,"
to an old neighbour and friend who had
dropped in, as people did drop in all day
long at the Gilberts', always secure of a welcome,
and of the best of cake and wine, or
tea, as the hour might be  " yes, indeed, poor
Lady Caroline ! Will you not take off your
bonnet, Maria, and stop a bit to comfort us '?
Now do. That's right. But you won't take
off your bonnet ? Though, to be sure, you do
look so nice in that bonnet, 'twould be a pity.
And the room is not too hot for you ? Mr
Gilbert and myself, we are getting to be old
people, and we like large fires. Yes, to be
sure, poor Lady Caroline ! Emily, my dear,
just say, to let no one else in this afternoon,
being as it is the funeral day," in explanation
to her visitor ; " and ask them to let us have
tea by four o'clock, Emily,  I seem to need
my tea to-day ; and, Emily, if there are any
muffins to be had, just tell them to get some
though I doubt if it isn't too early yet for

muffins. However, they can try. Yes, indeed,
poor Lady Caroline ! And the marriage
so agreeable to us all, and so satisfactory.
But it's in my mind that it was just too much
for the poor thing. An eldest daughter is an
eldest daughter, say what you will about
there being plenty left; and 'twill be the
first break in the family. The girls may
talk as they please, but when they come to be
as old as I am, they'll know what it is to have
feelings. It's in my bones that Lady Caroline's
feelings was too much for her."

"Delicate, no doubt," assented Maria. "The
aristocracy, as a rule, are delicate ; so sensitive,
there's no saying where to have them. And
no doubt it was a great excitement ; and Lady
Caroline would, as you say, have her feelings."

Ah yes, Maria."

Girls little think of all their mothers have
to go through. It's all very well for them,"
proceeded Maria ; " they think it mighty fine
to be ofi" with their gay bridegrooms "

"Ah yes, Maria."

'' But it's those left behind who know what
the parting means," and Maria looked solemnly
round ; '' they are the ones to be pitied," said
she.

Indeed it's true, Maria. Ah, dear," quoth
Mrs Gilbert, taking up the ball again, " they
little think, as you say, Maria. My son tells me
Lady Caroline was anything but stout," added
she, more briskly, ' anything but stout, he
said. Tall and thin, he described her ; so
what it could have been that was the matter
with a person who was tall and thin  for of
course something besides the feelings there
must have been  I can't imagine. At first,
said I, it must have been a fit ; for you know
there's no saying who will or who won't have
fits ; and I knew a lady, and I think you will
remember her by name  Jane Harvey, I mean,
who married a thin, lanky, pale-faced, long-fingered
man, and he died of the cramp !
Cramp is a dangerous complaint when you
can't get at it ; so maybe it was the cramp.
And "

"You never heard of the death till after
you had written about the engagement ? "

No, indeed, or we should not have sent
the letters we did ; and of course we should
not have written to the poor thing herself 
I mean her ladyship  at all. Little did we
know we were addressing a corpse ! AVe were
all in a hurry to write. For the girls were so
pleased ; and as we heard the family was a
thought stiff and punctilious  not easy folks
like ourselves  we just sat down all of us
then and there, that Frederick might have
nothing to complain of. And there,  to think
of it, Maria,  at the very time we were writing
'Dear Lady Caroline,' was she lying stark
and cold, and would never get her own
letter ! "

And now, I suppose you have had to
write again," said Maria. '' 'Tis a strange
affair from beginning to end."

"Is it not ? " cried Henrietta, with all the
importance of being mixed up in it. " The
strangest affair. You must know, Mrs Tim-mills,

that we had been on the look-out for
this, for Frederick had confided in us girls
directly he got father's consent ; so then,
Emily and I were on the tiptoe every time
the post came in till we saw his hand. He
said it would have perhaps come ofi" even
sooner than it did but for an adventure he
had had  but he did not tell us what the
adventure was."

'' I daresay he had come near breaking his
neck, or something," placidly put in Mrs
Gilbert. "He is as venturesome as ever he
was, is Frederick ; and he will drive those
nasty tandems "

"Anyway, he was all right when he wrote,
mother ; and wasn't it good of him to write
off the very day, and of her to put in a
postscript too, Mrs Timmins ? Father has the
letter locked up ; and he is having his nap
now, or I would get it for you to see. He
said it had only just come off", and was all
right, and he was a ' lucky dog,' and was
'as happy as a king'"

*' Ay, that was it. Frederick all over,"
nodded, Mrs Gilbert, beaming again. " Well,
all I can say is, though he is my son, she is a
lucky woman who gets him''

*' Well, she wrote ever so nice a postscript,"
said Emily.

"Saying she hoped we should be fond of
her, and that she was sure she should be
fond of us," added Etta.

Ay, to be sure, those were her very
words"  it was again Mrs Gilbert's turn 
her very words, Maria ; and there is no
doubt we should have had her and the girls
as thick as thieves directly. But there, they
must wait for that, now."

Was he in the house when  when the
death took place ? " inquired Mrs Timmins.

"No, it was in the night," replied his
mother, with infinite solemnity and enjoyment.
" In the night. Towards the morning.
Ah ! At the turn of the night, as they
call it. That's the time they go, mostly.
Poor Lady Caroline ! "

*come, now, mother, there's no need to goon
any more about *poor Lady Caroline,' making
us all melancholy," here suggested Miss
Emily. *' Let's think about the wedding and
all that. When can it be, I wonder ? "

' People are not so strict about mourning
as they used to be," quoth Mrs Timmins,
sagely ; *' a year at most "

'La! a year!" cried Emily. ' Why,
what ever are you thinking of, dear? A
year ! "

Oh, we couldn't wait a year you know, 
we really couldn't," added Henrietta. " Besides,
it is not done now among fashionable
people. Six months perhaps,"  and she
broke off sorrowfully, for even six months
seemed an age to wait, when before they
had contemplated  taught by their brother 
six weeks at the latest.

Well, I don't pretend to be fashionable,"
retorted Mrs Timmins, with some pique, ' but
I hope I know what's proper and becoming.
One need not be fashionable to pay decent

respect to the dead ; and though I am only
a plain person "

But she was not to be allowed to call herself
a plain person.

"Now, Maria, don't you go and think the
girls meant anything of that kind," cried
Mrs Gilbert, as peacemaker. " They wouldn't
think of such a thing as your not knowing
about the fashions as well as anybody. But
they are regularly upset, poor things, and no
wonder. When you and I were girls, ways
were different, and "

And an engagement was just an engagement,"
said Maria, " and young people were
en2:ao:ed, and there was an end of it for
many a day. There was no running and
flying to be married; especially when, as
often as not, there was little or nothing to
marry upon, and when "

But, you see, that is not the case with Mr
Gilbert's son," interrupted Mr Gilbert's wife,
with an elation which it was impossible to
refrain from showing. " Papa has come down

more than handsomely. I really am surprised
myself at papa's liberality. The young
folks need yait for nothing:, and want for
nothing."

I know Frederick had meant the marriage
to be at once," added Henrietta.

Through papa," subjoined her mother.

He spoke of Christmas' further informed
Emily.

Ay, we had Christmas in our minds, all of
us," said her mother ; '' and if the wedding had
come off a week or so before, we could have
had a real nice Christmas gathering, and made
a great occasion of it. Isn't it a pity now 1
There is papa so well, with less trouble in his
joints than he has had for years, and myself
pretty hearty too. I declare it does seem a
thousand pities,"  and she could almost have
found it in her honest heart to be indignant
with her new connection that should have
been, whom fate had transformed into such
a marplot and killjoy.

It would have been so dearly to her mind
VOL. II. F

to have had a brave Christmas merrymaking
for her bonnie bride and bridegroom ; the
whole house agog with fires, and fumes,
and feasting ; her comely board bubbling
over with good things, and rare wines from
the innermost recesses of the cellar on the
sideboard.

Many a splendid gift and many a choice
hint would have been delightedly bestowed,
neighbours Avould have been by scores presented
to the bride, and the bride would have
been trotted far and near, from house to
house, in return. Frederick should have seen
that his old mother was not so old yet.

And now the luckless Lady Caroline had
spoilt all.

Not only had the dame of quality upset
every scheme for present enjoyment, but she
had even robbed the future of half its gilding.
To say nothing of the festive season having
gone by ere the nuptials could now be consummated,
it would not be the thing  not the
thing at all, as the poor woman sadly owned,

with tears in her eyes  to make of the affair
the overflowing jollification it should have
been, had nothing happened.

Of all Major Gilbert's family, she was the
one most to be pitied.

Em and Etta could still look forward to
being bridesmaids, and conjure up visions of
future visits to King's Common, and even
derive some comfort from the thought that
these need be no longer such formidable and
doubtful pleasures now that the great lady,
who had even awed Frederick himself, and
who would indubitably have frightened them
out of their wits, was no longer there ; but
poor Mrs Gilbert, who was too old for new
sights and scenes, and who had composed her
excuse for not attending the wedding, even
before her son had informed her of the engagement,
 the poor lady, whose imagination
had merely radiated among the flesh-pots at
home, felt herself defrauded of her all.

We must just make the best of it, Maria,"
in the end she concluded ; " but I do say, let

those deny it who will, 'tis a mysterious dispensation,
and a most afflicting one all round ;"
and probably there was no one present who
doubted the sincerity of her woe, or failed to
divine its true cause.

Let us now return to the neighbourhood of
King's Common ; but before we once more
approach that smitten household, still numb
beneath its terrible experience, let us take a
peep into another, a lesser, and a brighter home.

A brother and sister were together in a snug
little parlour, each occupied in his and her
several way, when suddenly the latter, whose
business was not of an absorbing nature, in
that it consisted of some mild family mending,
raised her head, and thus delivered herself
of the outcome of the previous half-hour's
meditation.

Jack, arc you not going to call upon the
Liscards ? "

'' Certainly."

When ? I thought you would have done
so by this time."

I will do it very soon."

A clergyman usually calls the day after
the funeral."

No response.

The funeral was yesterday."

Still no response.

I think you ought to call at King's Common
tomorrow." But as even this very direct
suggestion provoked neither assent nor refusal,
the rector's active - minded little sister and
prompter decided within herself to push the
subject no further at present. Jack was busy,
his hands were full of papers, and his nose was
buried in the same : he was probably thinking
of his sermon  Lady Caroline's funeral sermon,
which all the parish would come to hear, and
which it would be no easy matter to preach 
he must not be worried with other and more
sublunary affairs.

She was a very thoughtful and intelligent
little person, this Miss Clemmy, and confined
herself to her own sphere in a way that was
quite surprising for a parson's daughter and a

parson's sister ; so that, although it might appear
from the above that she was in the habit
of whipping up her brother to the post of
duty, it needed but half an hour's discourse
with the fond and faithful little creature, or
indeed but half a minute's look into her honest
little face, to set all fears at rest for Jack. He
had brought her there to be his little comforter,
his little counsellor, and his little
trotter round the cottages  each of which
three functions she performed to admiration.
His comfort was the study of her life, his
honour and glory the sunshine of it. They
were all in all to each other.

It has probably been forgotten that the
rector of Hartland-on-the-Hill had been a
boyish friend of the young earl, and that
soon after his own succession to the title,
Portland had been able to offer Mr Stoney
the living. The small, rural, and somewhat
isolated parish was exceptionally lucky in its
having been accepted. For many, such a
place would have had but few attractions ;

but Stoneby's health was not robust, and he
was possessed of a small independence. He
therefore had neither the desire for heavier
work, nor the need for a larger stipend. He
had, moreover, come to Portland to look after
its spiritual interests, and he did not consider
that these were sufficiently discharged by his
being in his pulpit of a Sunday. He meant
to know his people, and to live among them ;
to teach the ignorant, strengthen the weak,
hold out a hand to the falling, recover the
lost. That his old friend Dick Verelst, now
become the Earl of Portland and a great man,
dwelt hard by, had not been allowed to rank
as an inducement when considering the offer ;
but once it had been upon other grounds conscientiously
accepted, he had allowed himself
delightful prognostications of walks and talks,
with not a few kindly and wily resolutions
for turning to the advantage of his flock those
affectionate feelings which he knew were cherished
towards himself.

The result had been completely successful.

Portland had indeed become by degrees so
much attached to the society of both brother
and sister, that Lady Caroline had grown to
lift her eyebrows and Lady Julia to prick up
her ears  poor anxious dears  if he did but
take over a pheasant or a hare to the rectory.
Neither of them had been at all sorry for unconscious
little Clemmy's absence during the
latter part of the past summer, though it had
been caused by illness in the family, and had
been a real trouble to Jack. " He must just
learn to get on without her. He must take a
wife," Lady Julia had decided, cheerfully.

Clemmy, however, had now returned, having
been away during the entire period when all
eyes had been fixed on Rosamond and Major
Gilbert, and, in consequence, she now knew
of the engagement, without understanding the
general attitude towards it.

She was immensely interested. There are
certain people to whom an engagement, be it
what it may, must infallibly be interesting,
even if those most concerned in it have no

especial claims to notice ; but Rosamund 
Rosamund, with her wild vagaries and rebellious
beauty ; Rosamund, who knew no
laws, owned no ruler, and sent wisdom to
the winds, yet who was so young and sweet,
and had had so miserable an upbringing 
Rosamund was a sort of queen in Clementina's
eyes, and her happiness a thing whereon
to muse and ponder.

She pictured it all to herself ; conjured up
the past; wondered where the two had first
met, and what the effect of each had been on
the other ; drew in her mind's eye a portrait
of that conjunction of the brave, manly soldier
and the bewitching maid. How delightful !
how romantic ! He, mute, confounded, adoring
; she, transported and enthralled ! A  h !
delicious !

Could she now but steal one glance  only
one glance,  have but one actual vision whereon
to base fresh castles in the air ? No, not
yet ; she could not go to King's Common yet,
and it was at King's Common only that the

enchanting play was going on. But Jack
could go, and Jack must and should,  and it
was this reflection, still more than the fact
that it was the day after the funeral, which
induced the question, " Are you not going to
call on the Liscards 1 "

After a time Jack looked round.

"What did you say about the Liscards?"
inquired he, absently. " You were not thinking
of going there, were you ? "

No, not I ; but you. I could not go yet ;
but they will expect you."

' Who will expect me ? Whom am I to
ask for ? "

'' Rosamund, of course."

"And suppose Major Gilbert is there 1 "

Which he is certain to be. Well ? "

I should feel foolish. It is not pleasant to
have wound yourself up to perform a duty,
and "

Wound yourself up ! But why ' wound
up ' 1 What is there about an ordinary call at
King's Common to "

This is not an ordinary call."

You need not say anything."

Of course I shall not say anything. But
still . However, I shall have to go, I suppose.
You don't think I could ask for Mr
Liscard ? "

'she would never see you."

"Just what I hoped."

Then you would have to ask for Eosamund
after all."

There was no escape for him ; and as he had
none of his sister's desire to know whether or
not engaged people looked and behaved like
ordinary mortals, it was certainly hard that
she could not have gone in his stead. But
this could not be. Eosamund had never made
a friend of Clementina, and had, indeed, opened
wide her eyes at the bare suggestion.

'' Would not Miss Stoneby be better than
the Waterfields 1 " Portland had put forth on
one occasion.

She had laughed outright.

Your mother would not see it 1 "

She had nodded.

Not good enough, eh "? "

Not " good " at all, according to Lady Caroline's
ideas of ' goodness," he had been enlightened.
What ? People who could not
tell to what family they belonged, or, indeed,
if they belonged to any family at all ? Could
it be supposed that a Miss Stoneby, who might
be a Miss Anybody, could possibly consort,
that was to say consort in any but the slightest
and most superficial manner, with a
daughter of Lady Caroline Liscard ?

All of this in Eosamund's best sarcasm.
But she had presently dropped it, and spoken
like herself.

At the same time, Portland, it is not altogether
mamma ; I own I am not drawn to
swear a friendship with Clem my Stoneby on
my own account. My soul does not knit itself
to hers. I do not dislike her  oh no. I
see her to be good, and amiable, and busy, and
useful  but . "

Come on," said he. " But ? ''

"She is so very, very old," said Rosamund,
seriously.

'* Old ? She is not twenty-one ."

Oh, I know  not in that way old ; not in
age  but she never, never could have been a
girl like me. She never could have got into
scrapes, and muddles, and all the rest of the
hot water  now, could she, Portland ? I can
never think of her  no, not if I think of herat
two feet high  but as engaging servants,
adding up accounts, paying her weekly bills
with her little basket on her arm, inquiring
after absentees from her Sunday-class, and being
bobbed to by a dozen in a row, whenever
she stops to admonish one. If I do but walk
half a mile with her, it is, ' Oh, just let me
look in here,' or 'I just want to run in thereat
every cottage-door we pass; and all with
so business-like and competent an air, that I
feel as if she had been ages and ages going in
and out of cottages, and bustling along the
rectory road."

*' You have hit her off, undoubtedly."

With a little round bonnet just fitting her
face'

"I know it."

'* And woollen mittens over her gloves, because
of her chilblains."

True to life. Both mittens and chilblains."

"And it does make a person old never to be
young, Portland ? "

I daresay."

'' You ' daresay.' Well, I do call it hard to
be * daresay ed ' at after all. Can you not think
of something to say, not to ' dare ' to say ?
Can't you suggest something, anything on the
other side 1 "

But he had been wise enough not to do this.
Unopposed she was nearly certain to work out
for herself the neglected argument, whereas
contradiction would have scattered it to the
winds. Oh, if others could but have understood
that wilful nature as well I

It did not surprise the young man at all to
find a kinder and friendlier feelings towards
his iwotegees spring up after this encounter.

At Kino[\s Common the brother and sister
were looked upon as his protegees, and had
the two both been men, they would have been
held in excellent favour in consequence ; but,
as we have said, Lady Caroline held that plain
and dowdy, or fair and fine, a young woman
was still a young woman, and that Portland
was just a little too often over at the rectory.

In consequence, the Stonebys had never advanced
in intimacy, and Mr Liscard's occasional
'' I wonder why we don't see more of the
rector," had led to no results. They were now
to come to the front by force of circumstances.

To every person, as to everything under the
sun, there is a season  a time when, for the
nonce, he or she attains an elevation and importance,
even though it be of an artificial oran
evanescent nature, and the mere shuffling
of the cards in everyday existence, at times
throws up the hidden ones to the surface.

Thus it was now the Stonebys' hour.

The visit reluctantly undertaken by the
brother, and anxiously urged by the sister.

proved such a success that he coukl not but
go again when pressed by all to do so. He
went the next day, and the next ; and when
he took Clementina also on the second occasion,
the two were quite hailed in by the servants,
who had marked how willingly any diversion
was received in the great, dreary drawing-room
of the mourning mansion.

That Major Gilbert was already there with
Miss Rosamund was nothing ; he had come
over early and been with her most of the
day : added to which, if the lovers had cared
about being interrupted, they would not have
been sitting in an apartment into which anyone
might walk at any moment. There they
were known to be when the door-bell rang, and
there the visitors were forthwith ushered in.

Gilbert, it appeared, was quite at home. Instead
of the uneasy attitudes and restless movements
which he had been wont to exhibit in
that chamber of horrors, and instead of sitting
edgeways on the formal central ottoman full
in the draught betwixt two doors, he now

either lolled easily on Lady Caroline's own
couch by the fire, or exchanged it for the
broad, low, pillowed arm - chair which Mr
Liscard still claimed in the evening:.

On the entrance of Mr Stoneby and his sister,
he rose, with an air of rising to do the
honours, met them half-way, poked the fire,
pressed them to draw within the precincts,
moved a table out of Clementina's way, and
finally subsided again into the low chair, laid
his head back, crossed his legs, and twirled his
watch-chain. Ease and intimacy could not
have been carried to a finer pitch.

Chilly to-day," he observed presently, with
a comfortable yawn. " We have got into
chill October ' at last, and no mistake. How
the leaves are dropping ! "

But there is so much evergreen to be seen
from this window that the dropping leaves are
scarcely observable," replied Miss Stoneby.

Oh, ain't they, though ? " rejoined Gilbert.
When I came up by one of the garden-paths
this morning, I could hardly find my

VOL. II. G

way. Give you my word, I lost it ever so
often''

You came through the woods, I suppose ? "

I did  more fool I ! Never saw such mud in
my life. Though I turned up my trousers  and,
by George ! I've forgotten to turn them down
again ! " and he did it before her very eyes.

(" "What a very " but the lady hesitated

to know what adjective to use. Instinctively
she glanced at Eosamund, but Eosamund was
busily talking, and saw nothing. " Dear me !
I hope he is a well-mannered man," reflected
Clementina, rather doubtfully.)

Then Gilbert yawned again, turned his head
round on the chair-pillow, and addressed his
betrothed.

"Rosamund, I thought 5ou would like to
see some letters I am expecting by the second
post, so I told Netley to send over one of his
men to the barracks about now. My servant
will give them to him."

But Rosamund was still talking to Mr
Stoneby.

'' Two posts a-day are a nuisance, to my
mind," continued the speaker (for, a dozen
years ago, few rural neighbourhoods had their
second post) : "I, for one, could do jolly well
without dose number two in one day ; could
not you, Miss Stoneby V

I must confess I always go or send for
mine'' owned she. " "We do not have them
delivered ; but we can get our afternoon letters
by sending to the post-office. Most of my
interesting letters come in the afternoon'

Ah, that's always the way with you
ladies!" cried the jocose ladies' man,  "always
on the look-out for ' interesting ' letters.
Now, what do you call an ' interesting ' letter,
eh '? Tell me now," he went on, familiarly ;
' four sheets long, and crammed to the throat,
eh ? Is that your idea of an ' interesting '
letter. Miss Stoneby ? I wonder, Rosamond,
are my letters ' interesting ' enough for you ? "
and again he turned indolently round on the
pillow.

He could not, it was true, see her face ; but

it was strange that he had not beo:un to mark
when that silence fell between them, and what
it meant ; that he had not begun to suspect
something wrong, when she was deaf and dumb
to his sprightliness. If he could only have
known ! Only have heard a warning note !
Only have dreamed that she was awakening,
and that to one of her mood such an awakening
was doom !

There was now no one to accuse him, none
from whom to shelter him, and, alas ! none to
hold him in any sort of check. Daily she
struggled with the light which was stealing in
upon her; thrust it back, shut it out, closed
her eyes, and all in vain. Could it  could it
could it be that others had been right after
all ? That those against whose injustice and
narrow-mindedness she had revolted, whose
littleness she had despised, and to whom she
had felt herself so superior, had been nearer to
the truth than herself ! Nay, impossible. She
would not give in to such a fancy.

Oh no ; it was, she told herself, only that

she was grieving to have gone against her poor
dead mother's wishes, and was unable to forget
that the two had bidden each other a last
'' Good night," that " Good night" which had
been a farewell for evermore, with mutual
coldness. No word of regret had passed the
daughter's lips, no syllable of affection the
parent's. A stony kiss, a bald " Adieu " 
and the two had parted, never more to meet.

In her agony of remorse, the one left had
now none to turn to.

To her lover naturally could no hint be
dropped ; and how be loyal to him, and yet
seek other sympathy ?

In her first burst of indignation, Lady Caroline
had used words and epithets which had
burned themselves in as fire on her child's
heart ; and although later, in the exuberance
of spirits which had been mistaken for happiness,
the generous Eosamund (with whose
nature, faulty as it was, nothing mean nor
petty ever had to do) had striven to obliterate
the remembrance, it had, as we know, been

stirred up afresh by her mother's demeanour
throughout the evening. At its close she had
been quite as angry with Lady Caroline, as
Lady Caroline had been with her, and had
proudly maintained the justice of her resentment.


The next morning she had been called in to
see the lifeless clay in its hushed and shrouded
chamber of death,  and what wonder if, even
upon that day, the first faint glimmerings of
reaction had been felt towards the lover who
had caused her this new and almost intolerable
anguish ?

These now stole on apace.

Would you not be glad of a cup of tea after
your walk. Miss Stoneby ? '' came in Major Gilbert's
loud, brisk voice across the hearth  he
had never attempted to modulate his accents
nor compose his countenance after the first day
or two  'tea can never come in too early on
a raw, cold day like this ; and though it is
only a little past four, what do you say, Rosamond,
shall I ring, and hurry up the tea ? "

Now if there had been one thing on earth
as to which Lady Caroline had been more
inflexible than another, it had been having
everything at King's Common done by rule.
Breakfast, luncheon, dinner, and even the
cosy little five-o'clock meal, had been for years
served at precisely the same hour, and to
hurry up " anything was not in the household
code.

Against this code had the fair Rosamund
many a time and oft rebelled. " Why are
we so stiff and precise ? Why do we not
have nice, little, merry, informal ways like
other people ? " she had been wont to cry
out ; and during that brief heyday when all
were bowing down before the gay, glad young
empress, there had been actual and perceptible
symptoms of giving way in this as in other
respects. But then all too soon had come
the admirer, the lover, the new theme for
thought, and matter for contest  and lesser
and more trifling grievances had been overlooked,
and let go.

It did seem now as if it were hardly this
place, the place of one so recently admitted to
the bosom of the family  and moreover admitted,
as was ever present to her remembrance,
by the very skin of his teeth  to
overturn the old established habits of the
house, which from time immemorial had been
as the laws of the Modes and Persians. His
hand was already on the bell : he was looking
carelessly towards her, and her eye, turned at
last perforce his way, was furthermore fretted
by the up-turned corner of the handsome
hearth-rug, rolled up beneath the chair which
he had dragged towards the bell. To, her
view the action was slovenly, disrespectful,
negligent. She could not forget that this
was Clementina's first visit to the house of
mourning, and that none knew better
than Miss Stoneby what manners had been
wont to prevail in Lady Caroline's drawing-room.


Pray don't," she exclaimed, stung to
sharpness by the thought.

*' Ell ? " exclaimed Gilbert, dropping the
bell-handle.

*'I am sure Clementina is in no hurry,"
continued Eosamund, turning to her with
gentler address, but still with the heightened
colour in her cheek. '* It is so kind of you
both to come, that we hope you will stay fora
good long visit. The tea will appear at its
proper time, Frederick' in a tone which Frederick
had begun to hear of late.

Oh, as you like, of course," said he, pushing
back the chair. " I only thought we should
all be equally glad of it. And what's a cup
of tea ? " he went on, with a little laugh not
quite pleasant to hear. " At my father s you
can ring up a cup of tea at any hour of the
day or night. Tea should never be a set
thing, to my mind."

*' It is a set thing here," said Miss Liscard.

*' So I see ; the very reason you should
break down the idea. It is great nonsense."

"Being the idea, however, and having
always been so " then Eosamund recollected

herself. "I do not wish to alter anything
that used to be," she added, more
gently. 'even the servants would think it
strangely soon''

'those servants of yours are a pampered
lot," observed Gilbert, who felt that he had
been snubbed almost as in the days of the
blue goivn. " It seems to me they have it all
their own way in this house. I met one of
the maids driving off to Longminster in the
dogcart. Positively, being driven off by
William in the dogcart, as cock-a-hoop as
possible. I should have thought that in such
a very ]particular household as this, such a
thing would hardly  but I suppose there maybe
some explanation ? "

If there were, it was not for him.

He received none, and might have known
he should receive none.

Once before he had spied upon the household,
and had told a tale which had been
proved to be perfectly true, and vastly unpleasant.


Rosamond had had to own that it had been
well the misdemeanour had been brought to
light, but neither she nor Mrs Ossory had
thanked the person who had shown it up.
The young mistress had indeed been even
more annoyed than the old housekeeper, and
had almost shown her lover that he would do
well to keep his eyes and his ears for other
uses.

Who wanted to be cognisant of every single
thing, whether right or wrong, that went on
in the back-yard or the garden?

Things had always got along somehow,
without the need for prying and peering.

He, on his part, had expressed surprise and
disapproval of the system prevailing at King's
Common ; and had emphatically advocated
the need of a master's supervision, even to the
lowest details, in the affairs of stable, or kennel,
 while he had exclaimed " Good Lord ! "
a dozen times when informed that Lady Caroline
had only interviewed Mrs Ossory twice
in the week, and no one else at all.

*' A pretty housekeeper you'll make, you
little piece of ignorance," he had cried merrily.
" I know how it will be. I can hear
you already ordering in legs of beef and
steaks of mutton ! Never mind. I can stand
it. I shan't be hard upon you. And you
must take lessons from my old mother, when
we go there. I shall put you under her wing
for a bit. She is a rare good hand, is my old
ma; and would enjoy teaching you of all
things. Lord ! she would go clucking about
like a hen with one chick ; for the girls have
got beyond her already, and think they know
as much as she does ; so she complains she
has nobody to take in hand, poor old thing !
It will be famous for her to have you trotting
at her heels, Rosamund."

Unluckily Rosamund had not felt that it
would be quite so famous, nor that the programme
altogether was likely to be so felicitously
carried out as planned. She had not
seen herself trotting at Mrs Gilbert's heels,
nor dutifully drinking in her instructions.

And what was worse, she had not liked the
tone in which her lover had commented on
her dead mother's habits and rules. It had
not mattered that he should think herself
ignorant and untrained ; but he should  yes,
he certainly should  have forborne to meddle
with what Lady Caroline had done, or
been.

It had been a different thing altogether her
complaining to him  although she now devoutly
wished she had never done so; but still,
she could not help feeling that she should not
have been taken advantage of,  and that this
advantage Major Gilbert had taken.

She had poured out to him, in the first
warm burst of confidence, all that had been
uncongenial and distasteful in her past life 
even before her engagement, she had allowed
herself to hint at much as to which her lips
should have been sealed ; and the result had
been that Gilbert knew a great deal more than
he need have known, and was not the man tolet
the knowledge lie fallow.

Neither would he now perceive that it was
not his place to comment.

If he saw a neglect, or omission  and what
did he not see ? he rarely came to the house
without having observed something or met
some one  he never dreamed of holding his
tongue. It would be  " By the way, I ran
against So-and-so somewhere "  where So-and-so
had most likely no business to be ; or,
What was Such-another-one doing somewhere
else ? " with a shrewd idea that the said
Such-anyone was not about anything strictly
within his own line of duty.

On these occasions Rosamund would, according
to her mood, either lightly let the inquiry
pass, or answer that if there were any complaint
to be made, she should have it through
Mrs Ossory, or Netley, or Thunder. Only
through the medium of these functionaries
had rule and justice ever been administered at
King's Common, and only through them did
she mean to continue to administer it.

'' As long as you are mistress here," she had

been reminded ; but she had not always smiled
at the reminder, and the hint conveyed.

Alas ! she had begun to be ashamed of him,
and every little straw floating upon the new
current of her thoughts seemed to bend in the
same direction.

I will go and let papa know Mr Stoneby
is here ; " and she now rose hastily, thinking
as she did so, " If papa either joins us inhere
or fetches Jack away, it will at least
break up the party, and force Frederick out
of that chair." She had almost grown to hate
the conjunction of Major Gilbert and her
father s chair. '' He always shows off at his
worst in it," she now concluded.

As foreseen, Mr Stoneby was sent for to
the library, and heartily welcomed there.
In truth, he had never found his host more
mildly cheerful. The widower had felt that
by this time he might venture to unpack the
box of new books which had arrived the night
previous to Lady Caroline's demise, and upon
which his yearning vision had ever since been

cast. He was now having a delightful afternoon
sorting and arranging, and the presence
of a scholarly and congenial assistant was
particularly appropriate ; the rector's call could
not have been better timed, and the two were
immediately engrossed, and disposed of for the
time being.

But Eosamund did not all at once return to
the drawing-room. ' They can get on very
well without me' she murmured, half aloud,
as she stole up-stairs to solitude and reverie.
'' Oh dear, dear ! how is it that I, too, can get
on so well without them  or is it, him ? It
must be my own fault. I am so pettish, so
womanish with him ; no man could like it. I
have lived so long in this one spot, that I
worry if poor Frederick does but ring a bell,
or give a message unlike one that I, or any
of us, would have given. How absurd I am !
Silly  ridiculous  prudish. And I who stood
up for him so bravely once ! And it was but
the other day that Portland praised me to
Aunt Julia for being above trifling prejudices !

If he could hear me now, he would change his
tune. I am as bad  I am worse than them
all put together I It is not Frederick who is
changed  at least I do not think he is changed,
though certainly he is easier and more  I
don't know what ; more inclined to loll about,
and kick out his feet, and use his  his handkerchief
and his toothpick. Oh, what would
mamma have thought if she had seen him
bring out his toothpick ! He scarcely ventured
to breathe or move when she was by, looking
at him as she used to look ; but I think when
away from her, that he would always have
been  been  I don't know what. He certainly
is more free than most people in his way of
speaking and bantering, and calling by name.
He is wonderfully soon at home with strangers.
I suppose it is his frankness. I suppose there
is no harm in it. I liked it once : surely I
cannot now be going to mind the very thing
that pleased me so much that first afternoon
we met  his sinolino; me out, and making
much of me, and saying * Good-bye ' as if we

VOL. II. H

had known each other all our lives. I thought
it quite delightful of him  though I do not
think Mrs Wakefield did. I know it was
soon afterwards that I heard her tell mamma
he was much too familiar ; and how angry I
was ! Well, when we are married I must give
him one or two little hints. But I wish  oh,
how I wish that till then I could hold my
tongue ! I know it is not for me to speak,
only when he will say the very thing he
should not  pshaw ! who cares ? I won't,
whoever does. No, I won't ; so, Aunt Julia,
you need not expect any relenting in that
quarter, my dear auntie. She will soon like
Frederick ; she likes everybody, the good soul.
Portland likes him  I think. All the children
like him. And the very servants, though he
watches and reports them, like him in their
way. Oh, I am all right  I am all right,"
and giving herself no time for more, she went
swiftly down again to the drawing-room.

And it had grown more cheerful there. The
log-fire was blazing brightly, as though to defy

the mists outside ; and Gilbert, who had missed
her, and had thought he had vexed her,
and was really in love, poor fellow, came
anxiously  and not too demonstratively  forward,
drew up her chair, but did not take his
wonted possession of it and her  and altogether
made just enough, and not too much,
commotion ; so that she could not help cheering
up, and the fit of the blues vanished  for
that time.

Chapter XIX.

THE CAGED BIRD.

Oh, what conhl it grieve for ? It's feet were tied
With a silken thread of my own hands' weaving."

Keats.

What do you say to having the girls here ?"
The suoforestion was Gilbert's, and it was
made after six weeks' experience of King's
Common as a house of mourning.

For himself he was not dull : he had his
military duties at Longminster to look after ;
his engagement and the family bereavement
to announce ; and Rosamund to make love to,
and give presents to ; but he fancied  perhaps
justly  that she was not having quite so good
a time.

The novelty of the situation had worn off.

and it was no Ioniser strange and dismal to
her to behold the hatchment over the portico,
and the black hangings in the family pew ; it
no longer seemed a liberty to touch any of
what had been Lady Caroline's particular environments,
to head the table at meals, and
give the signal to rise after dinner. Mr Lis-card
had resumed his wonted habits, and, as
before, pursued his own path ; while the
lawyer and the steward transacted between
them such business as had formerly fallen to
his wife's share. Miss Penrose had recommenced
lessons and rules ; all  with one exception
 had fallen back, more or less, into
the old groove, with a diffidence of the new,
natural under the circumstances,  all but Rosamond,
and for her everything was changed.

She was now not only mistress of her father s
household, but prospective mistress of another,
and had thus to take up two positions at once.

But although the future was surcharged
with importance and variety, it seemed that,
for the present, there was nothing wherewith

to while away the tedious hours. As soon as
all the black-edged epistles had been responded
to, and the dressmakers and milliners had
executed their final orders, nothing remained
which could very well, according to her views,
be put forward and turned into an occupation.
By nature, as we know, she was neither intellectual,
nor possessed with a turn for any of
the fine arts ; and although by no means deficient
either in wit or sense, these hardly stood
her in much stead at this pinch.

Society was out of the question ; her old
friends the Waterfields, who indeed might
have been admitted to intercourse, were absent
from home ; Lady Julia was obliged to be
careful of cold winds, and was, moreover, apt
to look wistful and let fall inconvenient remarks
; the Stonebys  she soon came to an
end of the Stonebys,  so that, all said and
done. Major Gilbert himself was the only
resource of his betrothed, and it is to be
feared she did not find him a sufficient one.

He was very kind ; he had invariably provided

something wherewith to amuse and
enliven her, when he came boldly tramping
in at the door, ringing no bell, but admitting
himself as a man who has a right to do so.
As invariably, he had brought with him a
fresh colour, and a fine appetite  the rewards
of exercise and health. Usually he walked at
this time, one of his horses being laid up ;
and knowing Eosamund to be also a walker,
he did not like to find her sitting over the fire
on a fine, breezy afternoon, in a room warmer
than was wholesome, and with a book she laid
aside but languidly on his entrance.

He thought she did not go out enough, did
not run about enough. He remembered her
as running in and out of the garden door all
day long.

The weather was not tempting perhaps, but
there were days when a good run and a blow
in the soft south wind would have done her
all the good in the world  and it transpired
that on these she had not set a foot outside !
She had been afraid it was going to rain.

Had be known Rosamond of old, he would
have been still more surprised than he was.
She who bad snapped her fingers at waterspouts,
to be daunted by the chance of a
shower !

He saw enough as it was, however, to fancy
she wanted a shaking up, and the happy idea
forthwith presented itself of providing a treat
for Emily and Henrietta, and at the same
time giving his fair one something to do and
to think about.

What do you say to having the girls
here ? "

The girls  "

Em and Etta. I daresay they would come.
They are longing to know you. And just
now, when the house is quiet, and nothing
going on, you would get to know each other
a long way better than at another time. AVliat
do you think 'i "

*' Oh, I think  yes, I think I should be
very glad." It was not exactly hearty, but
it was as much so as he had expected. Rosamond

had not been hearty about anything of
late. *' If my father has no objections proceeded
she ; " and of course they would understand
that we can have no amusement for
them."

Of course. I should say they would prefer
it. They are lively girls themselves, and
need no entertaining. Oh, they would be
happy enough."

Then I will ask papa, and write at once."
*' Oh, no hurry, wait till we have had our
chat ; " and he drew near, affectionately, for
he had just arrived.

If I do not write now, I shall be too late
for the post."

I forgot. That alters the case. Well, if

you are as keen as all that, " and he strove

to be pleased that it was so, and easily persuaded
himself that it was merely a renewal
of her girlish ardour, and no desire to escape
from his embraces, which sent Rosamond so
quickly out of the room. She was some time
in coming back, but excused herself by producing

the note already written, and inquiring,
prettily, whether it were worded as he
liked. Would it do ?

Yes, it would do very well ; ye  es  turning
over the page again ; very well, on the
whole; it was, perhaps, just the least bit in
the world formal ; but after all  oh, it would
do nicely, and it was very kind of her and
her father, and the girls would be immensely
pleased.

How soon do you think they will come ? "
She was beginning to feel really a little pleased
and curious herself, and was not sorry to have
something  anything  to look forward to.

What day did you ask them for ? I forget.
Did you name a day \ "

"No. I said the first that was convenient.
This is Tuesday. Perhaps about Friday ? "

I hardly think Friday," said Gilbert, who
had his own reasons for saying so. " Well
call it Monday. Ill just scratch a line myself,"
and he sat down again at the now neglected
davenport, and wrote a hasty despatch.

Which was just like him, all at home declared.
For it was to the effect that "the
girls" were to be sure to come, but they were
to be equally sure not to come one day sooner
than that for which they could be fully and
suitably equipped at all points. If they
wanted frocks and hats, and fal-lals, they
were to get them straightway, and he would see
that the bill was paid ; all he bargained for
was that the young ladies, when they did
appear, should do him credit. There were
also several considerate suggestions, which
the prompt and clear-headed brother had
thought out in the interval between making
the proposal, and Eosamund's return with it
carried out ; and finally, he promised to meet
their train and go with them up to the house.

As he had foreseen and foreordained, a
joyful acceptation was speedily received, and
Monday was the appointed day. But unfortunately,
when the Monday came, there came
with it some military business which brooked
of no delay, and which could only be transacted,

as ill-luck would have it, during the
very hour at which the sisters' train was due.
He had no time to let them know ; he did
not know himself till after they must have
started on their journey.

'' Poor things ! I am really sorry about it,"
he considered. " I know they will be in a blue
funk. And it would have taken off the edge,
if I could have gone up with them. But it
can't be helped. I shall get over to King's
Common as soon as possible; and after all,
they may thank their stars they have only
to encounter Rosamund  not Rosamund's
mother."

"Emily, he is not here."

An anxious face looked up and down the
station platform, when the long train from
London pulled up that afternoon about four
o'clock. "Frederick is not heres' exclaimed
Henrietta Gilbert, in accents almost tragic.
"And he promised faithfully, and he knew
how we should feel ! I did think "

'Sh," murmured Emily back. Her eye

had caught sioht of a tall footman luxuriously
corded, and instinct told her whom it
was this functionary sought. " I suppose
Rosamond is outside," added she, "and has
sent him in for us."

Half of the conjecture, and half only, proved
correct. The footman was for them, but Miss
Liscard was not outside. Miss Liscard would
explain herself what had detained her. Then
it became evident that the man was looking
for a maid. He had taken the young ladies'
bags and rugs ; but it was not until Miss Gilbert
herself volunteered to point out their luggage,
that he desisted from further quest.

Did he think there were more of us ? "
inquired Henrietta, aside.

But she was nudged to silence, and neither
spoke again till they were safe within the
large, roomy omnibus which was used for
station work at King's Common.

'' Well, here we are at last ! " cried Etta,
then. "Here we are, and here we go! Eeally
and truly we are now to make this grand visit

we have talked so much about. If only Frederick
had been with us now, I should feel perfectly
happy. I can hardly yet believe it : I
keep thinking all the Awhile that something
or other will be sure to turn up to stop us.
Every morning lately I have expected a letter
saying that some one else had died "

Do take care."

Oh, I shall take care, never fear. I shall
be as quiet as a mouse as soon as ever we get
there. Directly the smallest corner of the
house comes in sight, my heart will sink down
into my boots, just as it did at the station.
That footman gave me a turn, and  I wonder
how far we have to drive ? "

I am afraid not far."

Why ? How do you know ? "

I remember Frederick said about two
miles."

Only two miles ! Oh dear, we shall take
no time over two miles at this rate ! I wish
it had been ten."

I am sure I don't," said Emily, who was

more courageous. '' I am tired with sitting
still so long already ; and now that there is no
Lady Caroline, there is nothing really to mind."

Oh, isn't there, though ? If there had
been a Lady Caroline, I do not believe I
should ever have come."

Perhaps we should never have been asked
except, of course, to the wedding."

I almost wish we had not been. We could
have got on famously at the wedding. We
should have been driven up, for one thing,
together with a lot of others  not all by ourselves
in state, like this. The carriage would
not have been sent only for us, and that great
footman would not have discovered we had no
maid. Emily, why didn't we bring one of the
housemaids ? "

"We never did such a thing before," said
Emily. " I never once thought of it. And
I know plenty of girls don't," added she,
'' though I suppose some do. And after all,
Etta," with a touch of sound sense, " what
good would it have done, when the very first

thing that would have come out among the
servants would have been that she was not a
real maid ? We have never been fine people.
Why should we begin to pretend ? "

Emily, only think what it would have
been had we been going to face Lady Caroline
now ! As it is, this is only a girl of our
own age  younger, really  and Frederick
says she is most anxious to be friends, and
that we must make friends of her, and draw
her out. He seems to think she rather needs
drawing out  what ? What is it '? "

"I see the lodge," said Emily, in a low,
quavering voice.

'0 h!"

Don't hold me so. It will do no good."

"Oh dear  dear  dear! Oh, how I wish
it were over ! "

So do I. Never mind. It will be over
in a few minutes."

They drove in through the great gates, and
then on for some time, between rows of half-denuded
beeches.

I don't see the house anywhere," observed
Emily at length.

Could that have been the lodsje, then ? "
debated her sister, for they were not accustomed
to long avenues. " Oh, Em," cried
she, the next minute, *' do look ! Look at
the deer, look at that beautiful park, look
at "

I see. Do be quiet. Don't shout like
that, or the men will hear you. Frederick
told us about the deer-park, don't you remember
? Etta, is my hair tidy behind ? Do tell
me. Don't say *yes' without looking."

Quite," said Etta, after a hasty glance.
Am I right too 1 I suppose Frederick is
sure to be here, at any rate. It will be such
a comfort to have him. Oh, when will that
house come ?  and yet every moment I wish
it farther off."

Emily was silent, too miserable for speech.

"If it would only come," moaned Etta,
who, on the contrary, found relief in sighs.
*' Come, and be gone, and the whole thing

VOL. II. I

over, and we comfortably in our rooms upstairs,
unpacking. I would give anything
to have the next half-hour safely done with.
What are we stopping for ? "

For although there was no house, no gate,
no hindrance of any sort visible, the coachman
was drawing rein, and the next moment
the nimble footman was on the ground, the
carriage-door was being opened, and the loveliest
face in the world appeared beside it.

Ere either occupant could draw a breath,
the formidable meeting was over, and had
been shorn of all its terrors.

I thought I should catch you here," said
Rosamond's pleasant young voice, which had
such a sweet, reedy thrill about it, that
even Emily and Henrietta felt the charm at
once.

I could not come down," she added, stepping
inside, and taking each by the hand,
"because we had an escapade in our stables,
and I had to borrow my aunt's horses, and
all the arrangements having to be made at

the last moment, no one told me how it
had been settled till too late. That is a
very good train, the one you came by. It
is our best train in the day. We are very
much behind the rest of the world in the
matter of trains, but we do boast one good
one. Did you have a pleasant journey ?
Was it very wet ? "

All the time she was thinking faster and
faster. (" They are very good-looking. They
are handsomely dressed. They seem dreadfully
shy. I wonder what they think of me")

'' We shall be there directly," she ran on.
There are the stables, and the garden walk.
That is the tallest poplar in the county.
There are my little sisters, just let loose
from lessons."

*' Is my brother here ? " inquired Emily
Gilbert, at last. It was the only question
for which she could find voice.

'' I don't know. He may be somewhere
about," replied Rosamond, carelessly. " If
you are not tired we might take a stroll

after tea. It is fine to-day, but what weeks
and weeks of rain we Lave had."

Frederick told us it had been very wet,"
observed Henrietta, with effort number two.
*' This is rather a wet place, is it not ? "

Here her sister frowned. ("A wet place,"
muttered Emily to herself, 'ras if anybody
liked to be supposed to live in a wet place !
Stupid thing")

Eosamund however, appeared readily to
coincide.

'wet is not the word," she said; "we
have been dripping for the last month. It
has been unutterably, hopelessly miserable,
day after day ; " and in her tone there was
no trace that sunshine within had banished
gloom without.

Poor thing ! how unhappy she has been ! "
thought the good-natured pair, and felt all
at once more at home with her than they
had done before ; and they dismounted the
steps, and followed Rosamund across the
hall, and through the ante-room  so often

trod by Frederick, and so vividly described
by lira  feeling much less alarmed than they
had ever dared hope to be.

Still the youthful hostess had to keep the
talk in her own hands. Careless and girlish,
she chattered on, perceiving how ill at ease
were her guests in spite of all ; and at length
so obvious did it become that she was bearing
all the burden, that each sister began
in her heart to upbraid the other. (" Etta
can rattle on against any one," reflected
the aggrieved Emily, "yet there she sits
now, as if butter would not melt in her
mouth")

(emily told me I was not to speak, but
to let her take the lead ; and now, why
doesn't she take the lead ? " internally burned
the no less outraged Henrietta.)

Each looked with undisguised eagerness
for any signs of the burly Frederick, their
protector and referee-in-ordinary  scanning
every apartment for his hat, his gloves,
tumbled pillows, chairs out of place, all the

divers signs by which his presence was made
known at home,  but nothing was visible.

I suppose my brother has been detained,"
at last observed Emily anew, as though the
subject could not but be one of interest.

'possibly," said Rosamund. "Will you
take off your hat ? And you too 1 " to Henrietta.
" Throw them down here' throwing
down her own. " Do you take sugar ? No ?
Hardly anybody takes sugar in tea now. I
do. I take quantities. But I do wonder
at any one's liking coffee without."

'' I like coffee without," acknowledged Etta,
almost as if it were a crime, " and," brightening
u]D, " so does Frederick."

"You never take sugar in anything then "? "

Oh yes, I do, and Frederick is as fond of
sweet things as I am ; but not in coffee. You
should see his plate at dessert, all heaped up,
and "

"Yes, really," drawled Miss Liscard, absently.
"How brightly the sun has come
out ! No salt with your brown bread and

butter ? Eeally ? It appears I am alone
both in my sugar and my salt. We have
not found much in common yet, have we ? "

It certainly appeared as if they had not
found Frederick in common. There was no
response to his name, no interest in his tastes,
no knowledge of his whereabouts ; and whereas
on every other topic the pretty tea-maker
appeared ready to prattle sweetly, to each
allusion to her lover she was deaf. Only
when this became observable, did the sisters
experience any recurrence of that terrible
arrival feeling known too well to the
young and shy. They had now got over the
worst. They had surmounted the station, the
front door, the being ushered  as might have
been  into a great unknown presence-chamber,
whose depths might disclose anything  the
tea, and that without any presiding elder ina
big arm-chair  but what was to come next ?

Ought they not now to ascend solemnly
to their room and their trunks, begin to layout
dresses, hang up cloaks, find snug nooks

for hats and bonnets ? Ought they not, in
their mother's homely phraseology, to be
'' shaking themselves out," and getting into
their quarters generally ?

But here was Eosamund putting on her
hat, and talking; anew about a stroll in the
garden, as if they had nothing else in the
world to do !

''I  I  perhaps we had better unpack
first," suggested the elder Miss Gilbert, for
the case, to her eyes, was desperate. " We
have a good deal to take out "

'you did not bring a maid? Oh, send
the key to mine, and she will put out everything."


"Thank you very much' replied Emily,
doubtfully, "but I should hardly like to
trouble her."

Em always looks after us both," chimed
in Etta.

Still, perhaps  as the evening is turning
out so fine " said Emily,  " if "

The key, then, the key," cried Rosamond,

merrily. " Throw clothes, and trunks,
and all of it to the winds. I always do.
Here," holding out a beckoning hand with peremptory
archness,  " here, yield up the apple
of discord, the bone of contention  the "

She stopped short, her hand fell, and the
sparkle died out of her eyes. " I did not
expect you so soon," continued the same voice,
but strangely altered, to some one behind the
group.

But in the shout of welcome from the other
two, this passed. There was a simultaneous
cry of " Frederick ! " and with one accord
both Em and Etta sprang upon him.

*' Frederick! Oh'' cried Emily, with a
burst of relief and joy. ''Oh, Frederick!"
She had no further words.

You were not at the station, and so we
thought we should find you here, and when
you were not here, we wondered what ever
had become of you, and if we had gone out 
and we were just going out  we should have
missed you again," cried her sister, letting

out in one brief half-minute all the dammed
volubility of the past hour. " When did
you come 1 How did we not hear you '?

What kept you ? Em said she thought "

'' Shut up, you chatterton," said Frederick,
good - humoured. "I say, Eosamund, has
she been putting on the steam like this ever
since she came ? How are you to-day, eh ? "
when at last he was allowed to make his way
to her. "You looked pretty bright when
I came in. What was it all about, eh 1 "

The key of your sister's portmanteau."
There was no brightness now, however.

"And they wouldn't give it up? Wanted
no one to rummage about among their goods
and chattels, I suppose. Well, here you are
at last, you two," holding the sisters at arm's-length,
and regarding them with such a look
of affectionate approbation as compensated
for all they had struggled through. " Three
bonnie lasses ; and, by Jove ! I am the only
man for you all 1 I say, Eosamund, we must
set over Portland for the girls. As he is a

lord, he ought to cut up into two, and let
them go halves. Is he to be here to-night ? "

''No."

"Humph! Well, I thought he might,
that's all. He is here often enough, I am
sure. Or at least he used to be," continued
the speaker, " he has not been quite so much
of late. I fancy he has taken to going the
Stonebys' Away. Oh, but we really cannot
allow Portland to throw himself away upon
that little goody-goody, twopenny-halfpenny
Clemmy Stoneby."

Rosamund made no reply. The other two
laughed, and looked for more.

*' Aunt Julia is not half sharp," proceeded
Gilbert, bent upon showing himself one of
the family ; " she is a good creature "

"We need not discuss my aunt, if you
please," said a voice that would have done
credit to Lady Caroline herself; "your sisters
have not yet made her acquaintance."

They will soon, though, I hope. You
will take them over to the Abbey tomorrow,

I daresay ? It will be a nice walk for you
all, and the girls will like to see the place.
They are as good as you at walking, Rosamund
; they must start you again, for it
strikes me you have been lazy of late. Of
course there has been a reason' with a
sudden turn to solemnity, " of course when
there has been a death in a house  eh, what ?
Eosamund ? Oh, she's off."

She was ofi'. She could not endure more
just then.

Awfully sensitive, and all that, you
know," nodded Gilbert, looking sagely after
her. " Can't bear me even to speak of her
mother ; though, by George ! I do my level
best to speak civilly. 1 sail uncommonly near
the wind, I can tell you. But Eosamund 
well, Lady Caroline was her mother  and I
suppose there's no more to be said. That
sensitiveness is in the blood  and a great
nuisance it is  but I ought to remember it.
What do you think of her 1 "

On this point he could not but be satisfied ;

they had been greatly struck both with Rosamund's
beauty and her air, and testified to
the frank and pleasant welcome she had
bestowed on them. To be sure, she had

awed them a little, but

All right," said he, "I knew you would
get on with her. Only remember the sensitiveness,
you know;" and then the three
drew together for a long, close, delightful confabulation,
in which all were of one mind,
and no one had any sensitiveness to beware
of,  and it struck Em and Etta that even
Frederick himself breathed more freely when
out of the presence of his beautiful betrothed.

CHAPTER XX.

MAJOR gilbert's CASE.

She's such a miser, too, in love,
It's joys she'll neither share nor prove.
Blushing at such inglorious reign,
I sometimes strive to break my chain.

Ah, friend, 'tis but a short-lived trance
Dispelled by one enchanting glance ;
She need but look and I confess,
Her looks completely curse or bless."

Smollett.

How ridiculous of her ! " cried Henrietta,
the moment the sisters were alone. " I never
knew anything more ridiculous in my life.
As if we were anybody ! As if it could
have mattered before us! She had been as
pleasant as possible up to the instant Frederick
appeared; and then, Emily, then did
you notice what a change there was ? ''
No one could have helped noticing," said

Emily, " and I must say I had thought Rosamond
would have been above such affectation ;
but as Frederick did not seem to mind, it is
not for us to pick holes."

We don't pick the holes ; we only see
them when they are there. To begin to play
off her airs directly a man was by ! And it
was not as if she could have supposed he
would admire them, for at one time he was
almost huffy himself."

'* You mean about Lord Portland ? "
Why, she quite snapped at him."
*' Oh, not 'snapped" said Emily, with a
swift perception that it would be out of keeping
for an earl's granddaughter to * snap ' ;
but Eosamund certainly did not like it. I
wonder why, for Frederick said nothing she
could have minded."

She thinks this fine cousin of hers too
good for us."

Perhaps," Emily nodded thoughtfully.
*' Frederick said they made a great deal
of him, as the head of the family."

'* But Ave must see him and speak to him
some time," quoth Etta, recovering. " He
will not keep away from the house because
we are here. And I do think that if Rosamond
is going to be ashamed of us "'

Hush ! Nonsense ! How you do

run on ! Who said Rosamond was going to
be ashamed of us ? Just because she coloured
a little when Frederick jested about Lord

Portland cutting up into two "

"But why should he not? Why

should Frederick not ? Why "

"Why  why  why," cried her sister,

impatiently. " If you are going to say * why '
to everything you meet with here, it is a pity
you came. How am I to tell the Shy' of
things any more than yourself? Here we are,

and we must make the best of it "

'' Make the best of it ! And I thought we
were going to.be so happy and so comfortable,
once we were safely in our own room, unpacking
all our nice new things, and talking over
everything ! " cried poor Etta, almost in tears.

I declare I don't feel happy a bit. I wish I
was at home again. I wish we had never
come."

Rubbish ! Don't be silly," exhorted Emily,
with a suspicious little choke in her own voice.
I suspect we are both a couple of simpletons.
We feel rather out of it somehow in this great,
big place, where everything is so stately and
solemn, and so unlike our own ways at home ;
besides, Frederick's not meeting us at the
station gave us the shivers, and we got upset
; and so, because he and Rosamond did
not fall into each ' other's arms "

'' That was it, I daresay," assented

Etta, somewhat comforted. " And I am tired
too, Em ; aren't you ? And my head aches
with that hot hat ; and then, though I drank
the tea, I could not eat one atom of my bread
and butter, and I have such a sinking inside
me now. Yet it isn't hunger. I don't believe
I shall be able to touch a morsel of
dinner, unless  unless Rosamund is different."
"She did give one cross look, I own.

VOL. II. K

But you know, Etta, every one says we are a
good-natured family, and we don't understand
cross looks. Oh, we may be quite sure, certain,
positive, it is all right between them.
Of course it is, or would he have looked so
content and well satisfied ? There, now ; that
settles the question. Now, Etta, roll up those
empty papers and put them back into the
basket, to be ready for the return journey,
and we will begin to dress in earnest."

Dressing in earnest meant dressing speedily
and satisfactorily. Accustomed to waiting on
themselves, the sisters had refused all proffers
of aid, and now arranged their own hair,
selected their own ornaments, and fastened
each other's frocks  and insensibly their
spirits revived beneath the process.

It was a lovely autumnal evening, mild as
summer, though the season was mid-november,
and the balmy air came through their
open windows long after darkness had settled
down over the land, and had rendered candles
imperative within ; while the peaceful stillness

of the hour was broken only by the tinkling
of the sheep-bell, or the faint rumble of
a solitary cart in the distance. To ears accustomed
to the ceaseless hum of a suburban
neighbourhood, whose nearest approach to
silence was the cessation of near and dominant
sounds, the absolute hush which at
nightfall pervaded the precincts of the old
country mansion, surrounded by its own
woods and glades, and with a thinly peopled,
far-stretching rural district beyond, was a
new experience. The youthful strangers had
never before imagined anything of the kind,
and in the present bewildered state of their
thoughts and feelings the repose of nature
had a soothing and tranquillising influence.

'' We must go down-stairs, I suppose," said
Emily at last, with at sigh. " I wish we could
have stayed quietly here a little longer; but
I suppose it would not be polite. I suppose
it would hardly do. If we had anybody to
tell us these things,  but as we have not, it
is best to be on the safe side."

'* And I think I am quite ready for downstairs
again' responded her sister, cheerfully.
I feel brightened up ; and I want to see all
that is to be seen, and find out all that is
going on, and get over our next meeting with
Rosamund."

It was eot over sooner than she thought,
and as unexpectedly as the first had been.
They ran against a light figure on the staircase,
and it appeared that while they were
in all the glory of blue silk, smart sashes,
embroidered slippers, brooches, bangles, and
lockets, Eosamund was still in her plain
morning-dress, and was only now beginning to
pull ofi" her rough outer jacket, while her hat
swung on her arm. All betokened haste and
lateness. She had been out in the dusk, she
explained hurriedly ; had stayed later than
she knew ; was flying to dress noah ; would
not be a minute ; and would they go downstairs
to the drawing-room, where there was
sure to be some one, probably her next sisters
Catharine and Dolly, who had been promoted

to appearing there, and would be so delighted ?
and the end of the sentence was dropped
from the banisters of the upper landing.

There, she is all right again," murmured
Emily, much relieved. ''I told you we were
making mountains out of molehills. How
pretty she looked ! I daresay," still lower, 

*' I daresay, Etta, she and Frederick " and

a pinch of the arm supplied the rest.

 h ! " Down went Etta's mouthy and
up went her eyebrows : enlightenment could
go no further. Sly Eosamund ! Lucky Frederick
! They knew what they were about
after all, and  but behold ! The next sight
was Frederick himself, luxuriously stretched
beside the drawing-room fire, in full evening
dress, conning the paper with the air of a
man who has had leisure for every portion
of it, advertisements included, and who now
laid it aside with the greatest alacrity.

It's you, is it ? That's right. I thought
it could hardly be Eosamund ; she's not of
the punctual sort. Yell, now, let me look

at you. Ay, you'll do very well. I should
say you are all right. Up to the mark.
They dress a lot in these houses, or else perhaps"
 with a shade of doubt  "perhaps
you might seem a little overdone for just
now. Eosamund, you see, can't put on anything
but black, and I don't think she hasa
single black ornament."

' But she expects us to dress," said Etta.
She spoke of ' dressing for dinner ' as if it
were the usual thing."

Of course. So it is. She dresses every
evening of her life. All I mean is, that I
wish you could have seen her in full fig fora
ball, or as she looked that first day I dined
here  the day we were engaged. By Jove !
But she has never looked like it since, poor
girl."

She looked lovely just now," cried Etta,
enthusiastically. *' We met her on the stairs,

and she looked so fresh and bright "

"Ay, that's what she does, when she is at
her best. But she needs the open air to setup

her colour. She was not in good face today;
she had not been out enough."

She has just come in now."

'* Just come in !  come in now '? My goodness
! do you mean that she has been out till
now? I thought she had been with you,"
cried he, in surprise and vexation. " I
thought you had all been together unpacking.
Has she never been near you ? "

Indeed, yes. She came to us directly we
went up-stairs  after we left you, when her
maid called us, you remember," eagerly replied
Emily. " She could not have been
kinder ; only we wanted no help, and I
think she saw that  that Etta and I would
rather be alone. You know, Frederick, weare
not used to visiting, especially at these
great houses, and Eosamund seemed to understand
exactly, and we thought it so kind of
her to leave us a little to ourselves."

'' That was it, was it ? " said he, mollified''
Oh, it is all right, if that was the way.
Oh, I knew Eosamund would be kind, and

all that; but I want her to be friendly and
chummy with you  what girls are with each
other. She has often told me she never could
be really thick with those prigs of Waterfields ;
and she don't take to Clementina Stoneby, the
only other girl at hand, and so I thought she
would be sure to hit it off with you two. I
have no doubt she will, by-and-by."

"Oh yes," said Henrietta, cheerfully. "It
does t take long to know us ; and Em and
I want to be friends above everything."

"Have you seen any of the young ones
yet?"

No. Eosamund thought some of them
would be here's

They were, but they made off. There was
something or other on hand. They have not
been with Eosamund either, then 1 "

They had not, for they came in at the
moment, satisfactorily accounting for their
departure, and eager to make acquaintance
with the new-comers. Neither of the two
possessed the beauty or grace of their elder

sister, and whether it were due to this cause
or not, it is certain that the Miss Gilberts at
once felt more at home with them,  the
redness and sharpness of Catharine's arms,
and the sadly vulgar cold in the head under
which poor little Dolly was labouring, reducing
them, it seemed, to any level.

Moreover, the plain black frocks had been
made at home, and made to allow for growth :
they neither fitted, nor had been meant to fit ;
they were long and loose, and hideously unbecoming.
At an age when every art is
required to soften irregularities and shade
defects, the straight, business-like, uncompromising
breadths seemed as though they
had sworn to conceal nothing and lend themselves
to no illusions, and the effect on Emily
and Henrietta was, as we have said, immediate
and exhilarating.

They could at once proceed to interrogate
names and ages after the approved fashion,
and in less than five minutes Dolly was trying
on Etta's bracelets, and Catharine was

waving Emily's fan, as if they had been acquainted
all their lives.

Gilbert looked on approvingly. He was
really fond of girls and boys, and had already,
by timing well his applications, obtained for
these two in particular, divers indulgences,
which, to tell the truth, he desired almost
as much for his own sake as theirs. To him
they owed their freedom of this present hour ;
from him came boxes of chocolate-creams and
other sweet things ; through him and his engagement
was opened up the brilliant prospect
which formed the subject of their daily
talks and nightly dreams. It followed that
he was a favourite, and that his sisters would
have been well received on that ground alone ;
but directly it became apparent that the grownup
misses, in their finery and trinkets, were
ready to be friends with them, and did not
condescend, nor  horror of horrors!  treat
them as little girls, Catharine and Dolly were
soon at home, and all the party were chattering
gaily and loudly together when a quiet

step was heard within the doorway, and Mr
Liscard, rather astonished by the unusual
hilarity, appeared on the scene.

*'My sisters, sir' said Gilbert, with something
of a flourish. *this is Miss Gilbert;
and this is Henrietta. You would never
know which was the eldest if I did not tell
you," he added, parenthetically.

*' That means that papa will have to take
the eldest in to dinner' explained Dolly, for
the general benefit.

Then I must dine too to take in the
second' cried Catharine, seizing on the idea.
'' Do, Frederick, say that I must. Ask Rosamund
when she comes in, won't you 1 Somebody
must take you in," she added to the
appreciative Etta ; " and here am I, if Rosamund
will only let me."

Ask your papa," suggested Gilbert, who
had found the wisdom of so doing in his own
case.

'' Papa, may I ? Oh, papa, do say yes.
May I go and tell them to lay a place forme

? Say yes, papa. Please, papa, be quick
before Rosamund comes in. Is it ' Yes ' ? I
know it is ' Yes,' " and the usually placid and
demure Catharine almost shook the coat-sleeve
she held in her urgency.

Everybody laughed.

'you will have to give in, sir," said Major
Gilbert, merrily ; "you cannot possibly resist
such an attack."

"Eh, what? But but " hesitated the

poor widower, who well knew he was being
imposed upon, and in what light a demand
so audacious would have been looked upon
in past days  '' stop a minute. Wait till
your sister comes down. Here she comes."

'then all hope is over," muttered Catharine,
letting the sleeve go. "I know she won't.
Cross thing. She never lets us have any fun.
She is worse even than  than it used to be,"
evading a more direct reference. " If I had
only got papa to say 'Yes,' and had told

Badeley " But here she stopped in

amazement.

Major Gilbert had himself put forth her
petition, and  wonder of wonders!  Rosamond
was actually consenting to it. Yes ;
consenting readily  somewhat hurriedly 
quite graciously  and with no reservations.

She could hardly believe her ears.

Even Gilbert was surprised, since the young
lady had not been exactly inclined to be acquiescent
and compliant of late, but rather
the contrary  disposed to dispute a position
merely because it had been taken up, and
argue against an opinion for no other apparent
reason than that it had been put forward.

He had good-temperedly borne with and
humoured her, as he would a fractious child,
telling himself that she was not well and not
herself; but, like Catharine, he had certainly
rather anticipated a brief refusal now than
otherwise, and had thought it would be a
food think; to have the matter settled before
her appearance.

To his mind Catharine, since she was disposed
to he chatty and genial, would be a

distinct acquisition to the small and possibly
somewhat silent party. Mr Liscard hardly
ever talked, his sisters would relapse afresh
under the new ordeal of the stately repast,
and Rosamond  it might chance that Rosamond
was in one of her moods.

He was now agreeably surprised by her easy
assent, and furthermore, to find no one called
over the coals  as Catharine had more than
once been of late  for presuming and encroaching.
He looked at his betrothed with
Gratitude and admiration. He thought she
looked as she did upon that memorable evening.
As on it, she was now but carelessly
arrayed, and there had been no time to rearrange
the loose tresses of her hair. Moreover,
she had forgotten both a buckle and a
ribbon ; but in the haste and incompleteness
he thought he read an effort made for his sake
and that was enough.

The changing colour and dropping eyelids
were more to him at the moment than any
dazzling display of charms ; and the apologetic

I am so sorry  I am afraid I have kept you
waiting  I see I am late," was all that was
needed to draw him to her side.

"In the best of time," he said, heartily.
'' One minute only after the dinner has been
announced. That is quite as near as any one
can expect, isn't it ? " and he pressed the hand
on his arm kindly.

"Is it ? I  I am very glad."

'' You were late coming in. I think, from
what my sisters tell me, that you deserve
a medal for accomplishing such a transformation
in so short a time. You certainly must
be the quickest dresser in the world. I daresay
it comes from being alone. Two, when
they get together, talk."

"Yes, I suppose so''

'' You had a run before dinner ? "

'' Yes. I had asked your sisters to go
round the gardens with me," continued Rosamund,
" but they seemed to prefer being
taken to their room, being just off a long
journey "

Ay, they are no great travellers, and

had had an early start. Besides, coming here
is an event to them. So you had to go alone ?
You did not think of me ? " as he led her to
her seat.

You 1 No. I  I thought you had had
a long walk already. '

You might have given me the refusal."

But it was said without ill-will, and was so
obviously meant to be taken in good part that
she went so far as to make no answer at all.

They seated themselves at table, and grace
was said.

For Em and Etta there was certainly now
their first taste of the sweets of grandeur. To
begin with, all preliminary terrors  even to
the first shake of their host's hand, and to the
doubt as to which he would offer his arm to,
and the wonder wdiat should be done if he
offered it to the wrong one  had now been
happily disposed of. Then the tempting din-veritable,
sweet with flowers, and shining
with glass and silver, had been reduced to a

square to suit the smallness of the party, and
the party itself was disposed to be cheerful.
So that, though the room in which they sat
was large and lofty, and the meal was a composed,
noiseless, and stately affair, so far as
eating and serving were concerned, it was by
no means either what it would have been
beneath the iron sway of the dead Lady Caroline,
nor yet what Eosamund might have
made it, had she been so minded.

There was no oppression in the air. There
was even a general consciousness that conversation,
or rather prattle which could hardly be
dignified by the name, was being anxiously
encouraged and timorously cultivated.

Then Major Gilbert talked and jested freely,
having soon begun to do so under such conditions.
He could almost have fancied the
earliest days of his courtship back again, in
meeting Eosamund's supporting applause, and
the challenge that her dark eyes flashed
around.

When he drew her on to unite with him in

VOL. II. L

recounting victories they bad won, and fights
they had fought together on the archery or
tennis lawn, she was ready to attest and smile
almost as she once had been. Ashen he went
still further, hinting broadly at what the
future might have in store, the flush on her
brow told of no cold rebuke nor indifference,
but rather of a vivid and strong emotion ; and
the silence which followed, seemed but its
natural sequence.

He was more than satisfied  he was absolutely
radiant.

Come, Em, bless my soul ! you don't say
you don't like apple-fritters 1 " cried he, as she
let the appetising dish pass. "Why, there's
nothing in the world beats apple-fritters when
they're good, and they are always good in this
house," helping himself plentifully. " These are
simply first-rate," after the first mouthful.
Your own apples, of course, Eosamund? You
have had a rare crop of apples this year."

His next sally was confidential.

I say, Etta," to the sister next him, '' look

at Em now. By Jove ! she knew what she
was about. She waited for the pancakes, the
greedy monkey. I thought one ought never
to have pancakes except on Shrove Tuesday.
I thought it went against people's consciences,
Rosamund."

I don't know about consciences," said Rosamund,
" but certainly neither of these are correct
company dishes. Your sisters must excuse
our very old-fashioned cook."

"Faith, I wdl], if they don't," said Gilbert,
laughing. "Long may old-fashioned dishes
abound for me ! I hope you will remember
the sentiment, Rosamund. There's no resisting
'em. But, I say, how's this 1 You take
nothing. Now I think of it, I don't believe
you have eaten a single thing all through the
dinner ! You have said ' No ' to everything.
How is it 1 ' Not hungry 1 ' Oh, but that
will never do. You must have a glass of
wine, anyway," and he seized the decanter
from the man who was pouring out some for
himself.

She took it to please him.

Had he offered her a cup of poison at the
moment, I almost think she would have taken
it all the same.

'' Are you cold ? " said he, suddenly. It
seemed to him that she shivered as she put
the wine-glass to her lips, and he laid his
hanson hers. " Why, it is burning hot ! " he
cried. She started as if she had been pricked
with a dagger's point. She stared at him as
if she wondered what he meant when he
spoke.

CHAPTER XXL

TEMPEST.

 What shall I do ? Resentment, indignation,
Love, pity, fear, and memory, how I've-wronged him
Distract my quiet Math the very thought on't,
And tear my heart to pieces in my bosom,"

Otway.

No, she was not going to break with him.

She had only had the idea presented to
her.

An hour before, she had met Portland in
the garden, and he had come upon her in an
unguarded moment : some scene, some recollection,
had been present immediately before,
and fancying herself unseen and unheard, she
had been giving vent in irrepressible sobs, and
sighs, and broken articulations, to the tempest
of her heart.

She knew now that she did not love the
man to whom her troth was plighted  that
she never had, never could have loved him ;
and forthwith it seemed to her that every
living creature, free from such a chain as
bound herself, was to be envied.

Pier own hands had, as it were, locked the
chain, and locked it must remain ; but oh !
would God she had never known Frederick
Gilbert !

All her youth, all the brightness and sweetness
of the life on which she might now have
entered as a free, glad, heedless creature,
seemed at once to rise and mock her folly,
who had ere while held it cheap.

Her old home, that she had once panted to
be quit of, how dear, how delightful might it
now have become ! Her father 1 He would
have promoted everything, tolerated everything,
given her free scope in everything.
Aunt Julia would have been the head and
front of every sort of happy misrule. The
children should have had a bright childhood.

The boys should have brought home their
school friends ; the neighbours would have
gathered round; summer festivals, autumn
shooting - parties, and winter revelries in
accord with the merry Yule-tide season 
all would have been within reach, and there
would have been now no one to run counter
to, and extort a grudging consent from (alas !
it was Eosamund's own mother of whom the
girl thought, although the vision was an involuntary
one)  and on all of this fair prospect
she had now to turn her back, and
receive, as solitary compensation, Frederick
Gilbert, whom every day she loved less, and
matrimony, which every day she dreaded
more.

It had never been these, it had been the
gratification of self-will, and the thirst of her
soul after emancipation and freedom, which
had been the bait.

That very morning  the morning of the
sisters' arrival,  something  some trifle  had
vexed her spirit afresh. She had meant to

conceal the annoyance, but had been betrayed
by her lover's sudden appearance into revealing
more than she had been herself aware
of, as we know. She had but been pettish,
she thought, and Frederick never seemed to
mind such pettishness. It was not worth
thinking about on his account, but  but 
and she had rushed out into the balmy dusk
afterwards, like a wild thing escaped from
its snare, there to riiig her hands and sob
unseen.

Inadvertently Portland had caught her thus.
He did not waste time in preliminaries.

You may as well tell the truth, Rosamond,"
he said ; " nothing but the truth will
save you and him now."

"The truth 1" She struojojled to rein in
the rushing breath and quivering lip, and,
with head averted, made a desperate feint
even yet to hold her own. " The truth !
What truth?"

'rit is only doing Gilbert injustice," proceeded
her cousin, unheeding the question.

'she has acted in a plain, straightforward
manner towards you, and you  I am afraid
you are deceiving him."

"Portland!"

"And yourself too."

"Portland!"

I have no motive for saying so, you know ;
and, of course, if your mother had been alive,
I should never have interfered ; but the fact
is, it seems there is no one else to speak. No
one else seems to see."

And you  you '? "

*'0h, I see plainly enough. You took this
good fellow in an obstinate fit, and now you
have got him, you don't care to keep him.
You think he is not worth the trouble. Well,
ril be plain, and I'll say I think he is being
confoundedly badly used. What's more, Rosamond,
if it were not for his own sake, I should
say you were bound to stick to him. You
would have no right to throw him over. But
for his ," he paused.

You think he is too good for me ? "

"He is too good for you to play fast and
loose with."

Portland, how dare you ? " A sudden
flash.

"Oh, I dare because there is no one else,"
said he, indifferently. "Your father will
not "

Certainly he will not. My father never
spoke to me in my life as you have done."

"Just so. Neither would your aunt."

No, indeed."

Nor any one else  now '? "

"No."

Somebody must," said Lord Portland,
doggedly.

For his sake, I suppose ? "

For his sake, yes. I am, of course, sorry
also for you, but "

"It is natural to put him first."

"Because he has done no wrong," maintained
Portland, looking her steadily in the
face.

She was silenced. A full minute passed,

and neither would nor could be the first to
break it. At length, as often happens in
such cases, both burst forth at once.

The fact is, Eosamund "

'' I must say, Portland "

Well ? " said he, yielding precedence.

' You  you might have spoken sooner."

*'0h." This was hardly what he had
expected, and it must be owned he was somewhat
taken aback by it. " Well, I suppose I
might," he said slowly, at last.

'you have been on the watch, you have
played the spy," continued his cousin, excitedly
clasping and unclasping her hands,
and drawing quick, short breaths as she spoke.
How, then, how has it happened that while
you have been so clear-sighted and penetrating,
you have not said a word, nor  nor "

'I have not played the spy, Eosamund, or
I might have done so. I only saw, when the
light was forced upon me ; I only knew, when
ignorance became impossible."

'' You mean by  by "

'' Your face, your voice, your manner, your
everything. You are a changed creature.
You are ungracious, sullen, bitter  you who
used to be "

Never mind what I used to be."

"When he is by, I could almost call you
shrewish."

It is a pity he does not find me so."

At other times you are sunk in melancholy,
or  or else "

'' Or else ?  what else ? "

"As I found you just now," said he, in
rather a low voice.

There was another pause.

And all the rest," said Rosamund, presently.
" How is it that you alone have perceived
what all beside have been blind to ?
You have been so clever  where have their
wits been '? "

You may well ask that. I ask it of myself
continually."

You mean that I have done nothing toto
keep up appearances ? "

"Not much, certainly."
*rit is false," cried Rosamund, passionately.
'' I have tried and tried, no one knows how
much,"  she bit her lip, and wrenched her
hands apart, furious with herself for an admission
so inadvertent. " You have no right to
force this out of me ; your cruel accusations

oblige me to  to '

You have told me nothing I did not know
before," said he, quietly.

*' You think Major Gilbert is not satisfied 1 "
"Of that you must be a better judge
than I."

You think he is being duped '? "
"Ask that of yourself. There again you
should know best."

And this is the friend of the injured man,
who now interposes on his behalf," exclaimed
Rosamund, with renewed fire; 'this is the
benevolent bystander, who cannot stand by
and see 'a good fellow' played 'fast and
loose ' with ! How brave of you, my cousin I
How noble I It is a pity, however, the effect

is somewhat marred by over-caution. He
marches boldly enough to the attack, but
directly it comes to close quarters he knows
nothing, and can give an opinion on nothing.
Oh, the diffidence, the modesty of some
people I Pray, Lord Portland, accept my
humble commendations. I cannot sufficiently
applaud the course you have chosen to
adopt."

If she had hoped to taunt him into recrimination,
the effort failed.

*' Applaud or not, as you please," said Hart-land,
bluntly. "I expected you'd be angry,
and I suppose I ought to say you have a right
to be. All the same, do, for heaven's sake,
Eosamund, take my words to heart, and put
an end to this  this mistake, as soon as you
can."

How dare you speak so ? How dare you
call it ' a mistake ' ? "

I could easily call it by a worse name.
But," and his tone softened, " I will only say
mistake,' and a very unfortunate one. This

engagement should never have taken place ;
but since it has taken place, the only remedy
is to break it off as speedily as possible."

I will never break it off''

He stopped short, surprised at last. He
now knew that he had meant her to snatch at
the suggestion.

'you will not?" he said.

Not while I live."

"You prefer lifelong misery to a passing
humiliation 1 "

I prefer keeping my word to breaking it."

You are not keeping it ; you are only
keeping the shell of it. You are keeping it in
the letter only  the spirit is already broken."

He does not know this. He never shall
know it."

How are you to keep it from him ? And
even if you do keep it, are you to go on befalling
him through all life ? "

Befalling him ! Portland  Portland."

She was choking with passion. " How cruel,
how wicked you are ! How  how can you 

how dare you speak to me like that ? And
you,  you know all  you know how hard I
had to fight for him, and how I had to stand
up for him before everybody ; and how I  I,
oh, you must remember that dreadful scene ?
and there were many, many more that you
know nothing of, besides that one ! Mamma
was so determined against him. Aunt Julia
was against him too ; and my friends, I think
that every one of them was the same. Only I
and  and only you, were for him."

'' Nay, Eosamund, I never "

You never what 1 Do you mean now

to say that you never encouraged me, never
told me I was right, and "

Only when I thought your heart was

engaged. Had I known more "

What more could you have known 1

You knew as much as any one; quite, quite
as much as I did myself. No one really
knew "

Take care," said Portland, softly

touching her arm ; " do not let us be overheard,"

pointing to some gardeners at work
near. " Come back this way," and he led her
again into the narrow hedged-in path from
which, unconsciously, they had been about to
emerge. *' Do not suppose that I underrate all
the difficulties that have beset you, Rosamund,"
he proceeded, after a few minutes' pause.
From the first you have had a thorny path
to tread, and you have had to tread it alone
and unaided. But you seemed so strong and
resolute, and so entirely able to cope with the
task you had set yourself "

'the task? I don t understand. What

task ? "

"It must always be a task to run counter
to one's family. Forgive me for speaking in
plain words, but "

Oh, the plainer the better."

"We are getting no nearer the point,"
said Portland, suddenly, " and time is passing
we must not waste it in idle retrospect : it
is no use looking back  all that can now be
done "

VOL. II. M

*' Nothing can now be done  nothing, nothing.
Oh, why did you come here to try me,
to tempt me ? " cried Rosamund, bitterly. " I
never asked your help, I never went to you
with my story  I could bear it myself, if I
were only let alone. The others are far kinder
than you. They say nothing, and see nothing.
And after all," defiantly,  " after all, what is
there to see *? I am not, perhaps, recklessly
and wildly in love, as the saying is," with a
laugh of scorn. " I have found out that  that
Major Gilbert is but a man, and not a hero.
He does very well. He is very kind. He is
quite good enough for me. What is all this
stir about, then, I should like to know '? And
who are you, that you should interfere, and

presume to " and again rising resentment

choked her utterance.

If we go on like this we shall never come
to an, end," exclaimed Portland, with what
seemed but the natural impatience of a man
under feminine circumlocution, though a close
observer might have dimly suspected another

emotion struggling beneath. " Rosamond, look
how the darkness is. creeping on. I cannot
wait  nor can you. We must not be longer
here together, and this may be my last, my
very last chance of seeing you alone. Do hear
me, do not be angry with me. You say you
mean to marry Major Gilbert, although you.
own  yes, you do, you have owned that you
no longer love him. You may do this thing,
Rosamund  I suppose there is no one to
prevent your doing it; but remember that
when you have fulfilled your promise as it
now stands, you have only just begun the

horrible farce "

"Why need it be a farce 1" But in

spite of herself, she was awed by his vehemence.


It would be a farce you would have to
keep up year after year "

It need never be one at all. I could

learn to feel differently. Others do. I have
often heard it said that affection comes after
marriage "

Not to women like you, Eosamund. With
you, to love would be to love, and to hate to
hate," proceeded the speaker, in a slow, unimpassioned
tone, which seemed to be but
the outcome of his own thoughts, addressed
to the silent dusk and no human ear. " With
you the dawn of disenchantment would close
at night in thunders of despair. You would
grow desperate  perhaps worse. You would
make all around you miserable, and your own
heart would bleed to death. I know you
well. I should be afraid for you -afraid for
you." He turned away his head.

Another silence, another long interval,
wherein the two dimly outlined figures paced
on side by side, each occupied with an internal
struggle.

"You are so young," said Lord Portland
at length, " you did not know what you were
about. The world will blame you if you now
faithfully confess as much, but those who
know you best will understand and forgive.
After all, however, it is not for yourself that

I plead  it is for him. He may be, he must
be wounded in his tenderest point, if you
confess to him the truth  as you know the
truth in your own heart to be ; but think,
Rosamond, only think what that wound would
be were it to take place when there was no
remedy I His whole life would be ruined by
his having been the victim of your caprice.
For God's sake, Rosamond  dear Rosamond
do not so barbarously use a heart whose
only fault is loving you."

Before she could find voice for a reply he
was gone.

Rosamund, dear Rosamund ! " The words
rang in her ears, and throbbed through all her
pulses. He had never at any time so addressed
her hitherto ; she had never had an
affectionate word from him that she could
remember.

And now, of all times, to call her " dear " !
Now, at the close of such a conversation upon
such a subject. Now, when the hardest things
had been said, and the coldest tones used, and

no veil, not the thinnest, of charity had been
thrown over the ugly, naked truth.

No shade of consideration had been shown.
Scarce an excuse had been offered.

He had divined her misery, and those
haunting suspicions which ceaselessly hung
overhead where'er she moved or turned ; and
he had ruthlessly dragged the dark shadow
from the background, and told her what it
was, and how it should be dealt with. He
had expressed no pity, no regret for her. A
mere perfunctory " I am sorry for you " could
not take rank as any real compassion ; and
it had been almost more than either her temper
or her pride could bear, to be exhorted
to courage and openness, as though she were
some cowardly child shrinking from a well-merited
punishment.

With difficulty she had held back the floodgates
of her wrath ; and then, that one little
word, that one soft tone, had altered all. Her
swelling heart hung upon the remembrance.
Every former feeling vanished.

It grew late, yet she could not go in to face
her lover, her guests, light, noise, and merriment.


Out in this kindly spot she must have
another, and yet another brief moment, for
thoughts unutterable and pangs unintelligible.

How had this strange interview come about ?
How had it begun ?

She strove to call to mind his opening sentence,
and the shock it had given her.

She had, she knew, experienced a momentary
convulsion, a sudden upheaval of emotions,
in which amazement, shame, and anger
had struggled for the mastery.

Then had followed a woman's swift instinct
for concealment. She would allow nothing, acknowledge
nothing, if possible betray nothing ;
and in her poor, weak, childish way she had,
as we have seen, again and again endeavoured
to divert the charge, turn it aside, and carry
the war into the enemy's country.

She had summoned every power she possessed
to her aid, and had been undeniable in

her spirit, and prompt in maintaining her independence.


For all his seeming insensibility, he could
not but have winced now and assail.

She had meant him to wince ; would fain
have hurt, tortured him  done anything to
revenge the agony he was inflicting on her.
For her he had not had one kind thought.
Therein lay  although Eosamund little knew
it  the sting of the whole.

The hot tears streamed unchecked over her
cheeks now. Not one kind thought !

And she had been so used to his approval,
to his partisanship,  she had so counted on
having him always on her side in battles past !
He had been her shield, her stay, her stronghold
in Lady Caroline's time,  his word on
her behalf had been worth its weight in gold,
his support invincible.

She had allowed to herself that the consciousness
of his applause had been one of
the sweetest ingredients in her cup of
triumph.

All was now withdrawn. In this eyes she
had forfeited every claim to approbation.
The nobility of mind wherewith he had credited
her, what did he think of it now ?

As plainly as though he had put it into
words, it had been shown that he despised
her in the sharpness of his disappointment,
and looked with scorn upon the childish
whim which he had mistaken for something
finer.

She snatched a blossom from her path, and
tore the petals out.

Resentment, mortification, and a fierce desire
yet to acquit herself of the hateful charge,
raged in her burning bosom. It was no longer
Gilbert of whom she thought : he was nothing
less than nothing  to her at the moment.
She had no quarrel with him, had received no
injury from him.

Had he then and there confronted her, she
would have received him  as she did afterwards
receive him  with gentleness and
shamefacedness.

Had he at once demanded and urged the
fulfilment of her troth - plight, the request
would almost certainly have been granted.

Anything to put Portland in the wrong ;
chafe and thwart Portland ; flaunt her resolution
before Portland's eyes. Who was he that
he should stand forward and constitute himself
the champion of the absent ?

Had she not chosen Frederick Gilbert of
herself, and by herself; held to him in the
teeth of difficulty, resistance, and oppression ;
faced Lady Caroline at her worst, and won the
game against all odds ?

And yet now, forsooth, for the man's own
sake, because Gilbert was her poor defenceless
victim, because his life would be ruined by her
constancy, must this meddler step in between,
and with a high hand command her to let her
lover go !

Opposition, indeed, passive as well as active,
she had hitherto experienced. Lady Julia
had been tearful, other relations dubious, the
neighbourhood generally unsympathetic. But

the feeling had so obviously emanated from a
sense of her having found no fitting mate, of
her superiority to the match, that she had
been able haughtily to ignore it.

Now the tables were turned. She was informed
that it was she who was not good
enough for Gilbert.

He was true  she was a deceiver. He was
honest  she was playing a part.

The insult was too much.

And then, just as this point had been
reached, would come to pass a strange, inexplicable
transformation of the whole. A word,
two words  two little words, and a falling
tone, and a troubled eye, would come between
all else and memory ; and the rankling thorn,
and the cruel rebuke, and the still more cruel
indifference, would all vanish, be lost, swallowed
up in  in what ? " Dear Rosamond

"it makes me mad with Rosamond."

Artful concealment ill becomes the brave."

Odyssey.

Let not my readers be misled by the interview
recorded in the last chapter.

It had been, we may as well say at once,
fully as natural and spontaneous as had appeared.
Nothing had been further from Rosamund's
thoughts than that she should be
thus taxed for doing her lover injustice, 
nothing more foreign to Portland's nature
than thus to tax her.

But as he had shown, there was no one else
to bell the cat.

He had sounded his aunt, and to his astonishment

even that peaceable, rotund little
spinster had bristled all over at the very idea
of Major Gilbert's not having every reason to
be proud, and thankful, and content. The
young man. Lady Julia had averred, had got
what he wanted  a footing in their family.
Furthermore, he had selected and obtained
the flower of the flock, the pick of the bunch.
Pray, what more could he desire '? What
was there left to desire 1 For her part at
least, she could see nothing. Her poor, dear
sister no longer there, no one there to oppose
nor obstruct his wishes in any way, he had
made good his position as prospective son-in-law
and brother-in-law, in a way that she must
own fairly took away her breath. He had carried
all before him in the hitherto impregnable
fortress of King's Common ; Rosamund was
one with him, Mr Liscard deferred to him, the
children abetted him, the servants obeyed him.
He seemed to pervade all, and govern all.
He was ill to please indeed, if he were not
satisfied. For herself, she wished to hear

no more of the subject. Major Gilbert's very
name was distasteful to her ; the whole affair
was distasteful to her ; and though she was
obliged to be outwardly polite, and restrain
herself before her niece, Portland, who knew
how unhappy and disappointed she had been
made by it all, might spare her the discussion
of so odious a topic.

Subsequently she had chid herself for being
peevish and out of humour,  but still he had
seen that no good could come of pressing her
further.

Could he indeed have said  " Save Rosamund
; speak to Eosamund for her own sake,"
he would have obtained an immediate hearing.
But this was just what he could not do.
Truth was a native inhabitant of his bosom,
and truth at this juncture forbade diplomacy.
Honestly he thought his cousin ought to suffer
whatever evil consequences should be the
result of her own rash act,  as honestly he felt
that Gilbert was an innocent man wronged.

To have gone then either to herself, or to

Lady Julia, saying other than he had said, was
impossible.

Failing the relation most natural and best
beloved, he had, before appealing to Rosamond,
made one other effort  he had spoken
to Mr Liscard. But he had been obliged
to be so vague, he had seen such staring,
hopeless incredulity on the other side of enlightenment,
and there had been such an
obvious internal " Good heavens !  what can
the fellow mean ? " that he had hastily given
up the attempt, and had never tried a second.

This had happened only a few hours before
he had met his cousin in the twilight, and his
mind running on her affairs, he had been lost
in meditation, and had only just arrived at
the conclusion that whosever business it was
to interfere, it was certainly not his, when he
found himself launched headlong into the very
thick of a hand-to-hand combat with Rosamond
herself.

The fight once begun, Portland had, as we
know, struck out boldly, neither mincing his

meaning, nor smoothing down his implications.


She had been no less ready with retort and
defiance, and, as he had anticipated, had
roundly asserted her ability to manage her
own affairs.

Then he had called her "dear Eosamund,"
and her parted lips had forgotten to speak, and
her eyes had met his for one long, burning
moment.

He had gone with that word and look ; but
he had not himself been fully aware that he
had done so, because he durst not trust himself
to speak another, nor to meet that gaze
again.

Oh, why, why, why had he never so felt, so
shuddered and glowed before 1

He had had his chance, the fairest chance
man ever had,  and he had beheld it come
and go with an indifference which seemed now
incredible. He had not even been awakened
to a sense of danger by pangs of incipient
jealousy when Gilbert's star had first appeared

on the horizon. On the contrary, he had been
interested, aroused, nay, after a fashion amused
by the affair in its earliest stages ; while afterwards
Lady Caroline's foolish and arbitrary attempts
to stamp it out, had excited in his heart
a degree of opposition, which had sharpened
into fervour after the rescue in the mill-dam.

By that time, it is true, a new admiration
and sympathy had begun to stir his spirit
when he thought of Rosamund ; but these
feelings had not struck sufficiently deep to
prevent his experiencing a genuine, if somewhat
self-torturing pride and pleasure in what
he considered the nobility of her nature, who
could thus exalt and distinguish what was
great, and shut her eyes to what were, after
all, but trifling blemishes in her lover.

Thenceforth she had taken a new stand not
only in his opinion, but in his imagination.
She had been constantly in his mind ; and
without envying Gilbert, he had found himself,
he knew not why, disposed to stifle a sigh
as he thought of the fortunate man.

VOL. II. N

But it had not been until repeated shocks
had rudely shaken aside the veil, and revealed,
beyond a shade of doubt, the naked, wretched
truth with regard to his unhappy cousin, that
he had learned all that was in his own heart.

Then, indeed, he had been petrified with
horror and amazement to find himself instinct
with a life of which he had never dreamed,
and which insulted him and her alike by now
throbbing and surging within. Permit it,
encourage it, let it appear on the surface 1
Never. His first impulse had been to flee the
place, and see neither one nor other of the
betrothed pair again, until after wedlock had
made them one ; and this, had he thought only
of himself, he would at once have carried into
effect.

But such a course would, after all, only
have healed his own wound (had it done as
much), and would in no wise have bettered
either Gilbert's, or Eosamund's condition.

His absence or presence was a matter of no
consequence to them, but their mutual attitudes

towards each other were charged with
an importance impossible to be over-rated, and
how either was to be warned or saved, was the
great  ought at least to be the great  consideration.


This sounds cold enough.

Portland told himself he was as cool as a
cucumber, and as impassive as a judge, while
reasoning it all out.

For himself he and his feelings were nowhere
 or, at any rate, were well in the background
: he was smarting for his folly, and
deserved to do so, and would get over it as he
had done before ; but he did not like to think
of Gilbert.

Whenever he thought of Gilbert it gave
him a turn. Whenever he saw Eosamund
and her lover in each other's company, he
cried out that the poor fellow was being be-fooled
and betrayed.

Then he had set snares for his cousin, and
she had fallen into them.

He had found out that she tossed her head

and bit her lip at certain allusions. That she
had no desire to pursue certain subjects. That
she would have a sharp retort ready wherewith
to parry certain questions.

If she were expected to be cognisant of any
of the circumstances of Major Gilbert's life
(she had known all about them at one time),
she would now be as coldly ignorant as Lady
Caroline herself could have been ; and if appealed
to on the subject of his tastes and pursuits,
she knew no more of these than of the
others. The very mention of his name would
bring to her face the same look that it had
besfun to assume at the sound of his voice.

The only wonder, then, was, as Portland
had himself said, that every one had not seen
as clearly as he. He had been genuinely incensed
by the absence of all control, the indecency,
the inhumanity with which, to his
mind, his fickle cousin had allowed the change
in her affections to be manifest ; and dwelling
on this sense of irritation and indignation, and
losing sight of his own emotions for the nonce.

IT MAKES ME MAD WITH Rosamond." 197

he had fired off at her the sudden charge
which had led to the scene above narrated.
Lost in thought and retrospection, he now
hurried along, aware that darkness was gathering,
or rather had already gathered around
but for the silvery light of a rising moon ;
and so engrossing where his reflections that
a loud '' Holloa ! " from behind was suffered
twice to pass responded to.

The third repetition of the summons, however,
was not to be ignored either consciously
or unconsciously ; and turning his head, he
beheld the person from whom it had proceeded
namely, the young rector, his friend Stoneby,
who had emerged from some wayside cottage
in time to catch a glimpse of and recognise
the pedestrian on in front, but not to overtake
him.

Truth to tell, Lord Portland would at that
precise moment have preferred to be alone.

Jack Stoneby was a good fellow, the best of
fellows, his own particular parson, his right-hand
cricketer, his nearest neighbour ; but he

did not want Jack just then, he did not want
anybody just then. And though Stoneby
would neither interrogate him nor irritate
him, though he was a man who could hold
his peace and be content with dumb fellowship
as few had the gift of being, still Jack
was somebody, and nobody would have been
welcome at the moment ; even a grasshopper
would have been a burden. Involuntarily the
young peer dropped an exclamation, and his
brow contracted.

All through the coming evening he would
have to talk to Lady Julia, and listen to her
all through the long, long evening ! And
he did want to think over what had passed,
and ponder on this phrase and that, and
puzzle out the meaning of the whole. He did
think he might have had this short half-hour
for remembrance and conjecture. What ill
luck had set Stoneby stirring at that time of
night ? He should have been snug within his
own four walls, beside his study fire, or partaking
of his well-earned dinner. He should

not be meandering out on a November evening,
at nearly seven o'clock.

Holloa, you, I say ! " began he, when the
two were near enough for speech, " what are
you doing out along the road at this time of
nio'ht ? You will be as hoarse as a crow on
Sunday, Mr Parson, and then it will be the
worse for us who have to come and hear you."

That's all you think about, naturally,"
retorted Stoneby, joining him. " But it ought
to console you to reflect that this being only
Monday, if I have to submit to a mustard-plaster
on my throat all to-night, I have the
rest of the week in which to get well. You
have been at King's Common, I suppose ? "

"Yes."

Nothing further, and the two stepped along,
each unaware of what might be passing in the
other's breast.

"What about your football on Saturday,
Portland ? "

It is to come off. The ground is all right."

Not too wet ? "

'' A little wet, but this wind will dry it.
We like a soft ground, so long as it is not
under water."

' How about the team ? "

Oh, we shall do. No great things."

*' Marks can play, can he ? "

"Yes."

Jenkinson ?"

Can't give a definite answer yet."

"And you have Jones, and Barrel, and
Enriching. You ought to do pretty
well."

"I think so."

If it had been the response of any one else,
its lukewarmness, not to say dispiritedness,
would have created some distrust in the hearer ;
but Stoneby, who took nearly as keen an interest
in the subject as Portland himself, knew
his man, and rating his "I think so " at its
true value, wondered at the indifference by
which it was accompanied. Lord Portland
would not have said more had the event been
an absolute certainty, and two days before

Lord Portland had been all anxiety and animation
on the subject.

He now let it drop with an air of weariness,
and the next instant began about something
totally different. '' They say that boy Gilbert
saved has never been quite right since' he
said. "Is it true ? "

He is in bed again to-days' replied Stoneby.
"I was that way this afternoon, and
looked in. He keeps ailing from one thing
and another, and they think it is a matter of
time his getting quite over it."

Have they had a doctor ? "

Makings assistant has been once or twice."

Not Makin himself?"

''He is very busy, and has a lot on his
hands just now."

"And they think there is nothing much
amiss," said Portland, absently. He scarcely
knew what he was talking about, but had a
vague idea that talk was better than silence,
and that Billy Barley was a safe topic.

Oh no. The little fellow will grow out of

it ; he is young and hearty," said Stoneby,
and another full stop ensued.

** Lady Julia quite well ? " he inquired
presently, when another three minutes had
passed.

eyes. Thanks."

I saw your omnibus at the station, meeting
the London train."

She was not in it, though. It had been
sent to meet some people."

I am glad I did not stop the coachman,
then. I wanted to see Lady Julia; but any
day will do. I will walk over tomorrow or
next day."

'' She is sure to be in at luncheon-time tomorrow."


"But she will be engaged with your visitors.
Another day will do."

*' The visitors were not for us," said Hart-land
; " they were for my cousin Eosamund.
Our omnibus went because one of her horses is
lame."

"Oh!"

"You will see them when you go to King's
Common," proceeded Portland ; "it is Major
Gilbert's sisters who have come to be introduced
to the family, and make the acquaintance
of their future sister-in-law."

Have they 1 Oh, they will stop some time
then, I suppose ? "

"I suppose so."

Are they  are they  what do they seem
like ? I mean, are they likely to be acquisitions
to your circle ? "

Come, say out what you mean, Jack
Stoneby," said Portland, shaking his arm
good-humouredly. *' No need to put on fine
phrases for me. You mean how will Rosamund
get on with these Gilberts '? I tell you
frankly, I don't know ; and I don't look forward
ever to knowing; : she will never tell."
There was no mistaking the change in his air
and tone. He was now aroused, interested,
alert. He was going to pursue the subject.

I did not see these new-comers' proceeded
he, after a moment's pause, *but I shall tomorrow.

So will you, if you come, as you
said you would. Come, and bring your sister.
My aunt has asked the party from King's
Common over."

But your aunt may prefer having them
by themselves ? "

I can answer for her that she will not.
You will allow that I know Lady Julia?
Well, come,  she will be more than pleased,
she will be relieved to have you."

Is that it ? " said Stoneby, comprehending.
Then you may depend on us. I rather
gathered that Lady Julia was not  that Major
Gilbert was not a favourite with her. But
you  you like him, don't you ? "

Like Gilbert ? "

I say, you like Gilbert, don't you ? "

I  I  I don't know, I am sure."

My dear fellow, what is the matter ? " cried
Stoneby, laughing ; " what makes you look at
me in that way? I ask you a very simple
question, and you look as perturbed as though
I had propounded a problem of Euclid ! At the

family, perhaps you would rather not "

"Oh, rot!" said Portland. ''I could

surely say to you what I think of a fellow,
though he is going to marry my third cousin,
once or twice removed. But the fact is, I 
the question itself was a poser  I had never
really put it to myself. Come to think of it,
I suppose I do like Gilbert. Certainly I
admire him  or, at least, a great deal about
him. He does not shine in small things ; he
is rather a nuisance in a house ; but he is a
good fellow, a very good fellow in the main.
Oh, of course I must like him, though I may
not exactly care for his society."

I should think he is well-principled and
conscientious."

Oh, I should think so, certainly."

And a good commanding officer."

And likely to rise in the service."

clever."

And popular."

'' And good-tempered, and easy to live with,"
summed up Stoneby.

For those who like his good temper and
ease," rejoined Portland. " Now you do, Jack ;
you know you do ; so it is no use your hanging
back, and looking up and down like that.
Gilbert is just the sort of man to take your
fancy, and you ought to stand by him and
own it. Come now, don't be shabby ; speak
out."

Still Jack was silent.

It's deuced hard on that poor fellow that
nobody hereabouts likes him," said Portland,
plaintively. '' Why shouldn't we like him,
you and I ? "Why shouldn't we like him, I
say ? It is not his fault. He does his best all
round ; and I am sure there is nothing he
would not do to please. The trouble he has
taken for me in several ways makes me quite
ashamed when I think of what a busy man he
is, and what an idle fool I am ; but the fact is,
he could do the things, and I couldn't. And
he makes so light of the trouble, and is so

cheerful over it, that I hardly know which
way to look when I have to thank him, I feel
so beastly cold and ungrateful. And I am
sure, Jack, he always speaks most kindly of
you. Only the other day he was sounding
your praises ; and he went ever so far out of
his way with a parcel for your sister last night,
though it was wet and cold, because he thought
it was something she wanted particularly. I
was there and saw it all. And there's Lady
Julia, too," proceeded the speaker, *' she who
likes everybody, and who, I never thought,
knew one from another  she has not a good
word for him ! When I brins him to the
Abbey, she draws herself up, and is so laboriously
polite, that it is quite oppressive. He
is the only person with whom I have ever seen
her in the least like  like poor Lady Caroline."

Does he see it ? "

"Not in the least. He told me the other
day, with a wink, that he could always come
round the old ladies. She had just been
particularly bad to him."

"But Lady Julia's 'badness' " began

Stoneby, laughing.

"Oh, we know what it is, of course. I
don't blame his want of perception tliere','
said Portland, emphatically. To the surprise
of his friend he was now frowning and biting
his lip, while something evidently lay behind.


After all," said Mr Stoneby, quietly, "none
of this really signifies much, does it ? It cannot
be of any real importance to Major Gilbert
that he is not altogether popular among us.
We have our own ways and habits. He has
his, and his, I believe, serve him in very good
stead among his brother officers and in society
generally."

Society ? Hum ! "

His society. The society he habitually
moves in. Soldiers are at home everywhere,
you know "

Yoii telling me about soldiers ! You

are in a hole, my friend, and you are only
blundering further and further in. I understand

you perfectly. Gilbert's class is not
ours, and that we have both found out."

His true worth must outweigh that in
the long-run, Portland."

I have told myself so a hundred times,"
said Portland, vehemently ; " it is what I
have consoled myself with over and over
again. But, Stoneby, if  if it should not?"

If it should not ? "

If  if  did it ever strike you. Jack, that
it might be awkward for a man if his wife did
not eh ? "

His wife, Portland ? We were not speaking
of a wife."

*' I am now. Suppose the glamour were to
wear off, and the wife  we'll say my cousin 
supposing she did happen to feel about Gilbert
as we do "

My dear Portland, why suppose such a
thing ? In that case, what reason could she
have had for accepting him ? "

True  very true ; as you say, what
reason ? At the same time  by heaven ! "

VOL. II.

exclaimed Portland, suddenly, "Lady Caroline
had only herself to thank that it came to
what it did. Any person of sense could have
seen with half a glance that it was a 
between mother and daughter, and Rosamond
 poor Eosamund won." His accents,
which had begun by ringing out harsh and
sharp, sank and faltered at the close. There
was reality, passion, grief in every note. " I
say, don't speak of this," he went on hurriedly,
don't you ever remember that I said it 
unless  unless things should be different. But
it's God's truth, Stoneby; that's what it is.
That poor girl is entangled in a net woven by
her own hands, and she will never, left to herself,
cut her way out of it. What's worse, he
is blind, and stupid, and deaf, and drugged to
sleep by the intoxication of his own happiness.
He can't see. He has no eyes to see. They
have got themselves so completely caught 
no, it is not ' they '  'tis she alone who has
played the fool. That's why I stand by
Gilbert, d'ye see ? I don't like him ; I don't

take to him ; I shirk him ; I get out of his
way whenever I can,  but I am ashamed to
look him in the face. He is a frank, straightforward,
honourable fellow; and yet because
he does not understand the tittle-tattle of the
drawing-room, and has  yes, he has a beast of
a lauoh  I somehow never care to remain
in the same room with him. And Rosamund
" he stopped short.

Stoneby said nothing.

"It is all very well for you," pursued the
speaker,  " you have only to tell yourself that
this is no business of yours, and have done
with it ; but I have to go over there day after
day and see it going on "

Why do you go so often ? "

Why  why  why ? Of course I go. I
always have gone. It would seem very odd if
I did not go. Why shouldn't I go '? "

Only if it pains you "

' Pains ' me ! Who says it  pains ' me ? It
disgusts and irritates me. It makes me mad
with Rosamund, and unjust towards poor Gilbert.

But that's my affair. I had rather be
there and see it all, than stop away and know
it's ofoinof on. That is what I can't do. I
cannot keep out of the way, and let this interloper
have the run of the place. To see him
strolling about now with his hands in his
pockets, and his hat stuck on the back of his
head  and to remember that less than two
months ago he was but just admitted to make
a formal call, and that had Lady Caroline
lived, even this engagement would hardly
have procured him intimacy  it is altogether
too much. If he is to go about saying and
doing all sorts of objectionable things, I must
be there too, "

Do you do any good ? "

Good '? None whatever. Father harm, I
should say."

"Then again, why go '?"

Because  as I say  because  well, because
I can't help it. I am a fool."

GILBERT UNDOES IT ALL.

Qiiit, quit, for shame ! this will not move,
This cannot take her ;
If of herself she will not love,
Nothing can make her.
The devil take her."

Sir John Suckling.

Did you hear that about the Abbey ? " whispered
Henrietta Gilbert to her sister, as soon as
she conveniently could that evening. '* We are
to go over there tomorrow and take luncheon,
and see the place ; so it must have been all
nonsense about Lord Portland."

' 'Sh' frowned Emily, glancing round in
apprehension, for Etta's asides were by no
means always inaudible. They were, however,
at a safe distance from the rest of the

party, having gone off together to inspect an
old cabinet, and under cover of so doing,
exchange confidences. "Don't let them see
us talking," further counselled she. "Etta,
your waistband is hanging down. I saw it
directly you came into the dining - room ;
stand still, and let me tuck it up. How well
Eosamund looks in black ! " tucking vigorously.
" I don't believe she could look better
in colours ; it must be Frederick's fancy, because
he never likes anything doleful."

"Did you notice how prettily the skirt was
hung ? " murmured Etta back ; " those large
bunches falling so softly? That is the new
fashion. I wish we had seen it before we
got these," somewhat ruefully. " I never did
like the drapery of these, and mine is so
dreadfully tight too. I can scarcely breathe."

You will do yourself no good by wriggling
about ; you should have had it seen to before
you left. There ; the band is all right now,
at any rate ; but do remember to fasten it
another time."

What shall we wear for to - morrow's
luncheon, Em 1 "

Our bests, of course."

** The new plush skirts 1 " said Etta, in a
tone of awe.

'' Of course. When could we have a better
occasion for them "? "

'' And if we are asked to walk about, and
it comes on to rain ? "

Nonsense. AYe got them to wear, not to
lie in the cupboard. Frederick will expect us
to look our best."

Is Frederick going ? "

Ask him now," as Frederick approached.
He had detained his betrothed, alleging that
she had done nothing but run away from him
ever since he came, and had had his complaint
allowed, and all his demands granted;  furthermore,
the pretty diamond fly which had
waited for an opportunity to emerge from his
waistcoat-pocket and settle on her fair neck,
had been gratefully and timidly received,
while the eyes that sank beneath his were

to his certain knowledge, suffused with moisture.


He had excused her following him into the
room thereafter, and now made his way towards
his sisters alone, and supremely happy.

Eh I what  what mischief are you twa
hatching 1 " said he ; " whenever I see you
two together, I know there's mischief in the
wind. Am I ' going ' ? ' Going ' where ?
One at a time  one at a time. Oh, to the
Abbey, is it 1 I have heard nothing of it.
Whose idea is it ? Your own, or Rosamond's
? "

Lady Julia Verelst's," replied Emily, with
unction. " Lady Julia has invited us all."

"For tomorrow, eh 1 To what ? Dinner?"

Luncheon. Luncheon at two o'clock."

Luncheon ? That's a pity. I doubt
whether I can get over to luncheon. When
did the invitation come ? Just now ? "

I don't know when it came ; but Rosamund
told us  or rather told me just now,"
said Henrietta. " She said it in a sort of

off-hand way  ' My aunt hopes to see us
there at luncheon to-morrow and I saw the
note handed to her, directly we came in hereafter
dinner. It was lying about afterwards.
It was lying open, and I saw *Do not be
later that two for some reason or other.
There it is now "

"Well, well, never mind. I say you mustn't
look into notes and things, you knows'

It was wide open, Frederick."

'was it? I daresay. All right. But
about my going, I am not so sure. I am
glad you are to go. Old Julia always does
the right thing. She is a rare jolly old bird,
is Julia ; and you will like seeing the Abbey,
too. There is armour, and pictures, and
things. Take care what you say about 'em
all : people are touchy on family concerns,
you know."

You like Lady Julia ? She is not like 
the other one ? " whispered Emily, somewhat
anxiously.

"Not a scrap. No, indeed. Julia's the

best of creatures. We are tremendous friends,
Julia and I. I call on her whenever I am
that way. She likes the attention, and, by-jove
! she is the only one of all the women
in this confounded neighbourhood that I care
to pay it to. They are the most capricious lot.
There's Mrs Wakefield for one. She seemed
uncommonly nice and friendly to me the first
time I went to pay my respects  and she is
barely civil now,  as to making you free of
her house, she wouldn't think of such a thing.
I don't know whether my taking up in this
quarter, instead of in hers, may not have had
something to do with it, mind you : a woman
with six daughters who don't go off, ought
to be forgiven a good deal,  and from the
very first, every one knew who it was I was
bitten with. Well, but there are others besides
her ; not people you know anything of.
This is a stiffish bit of country to work.
Even that long-backed parson Stoneby buttons
up his coat when he meets you, as much
as to say 'I keep myself to myself;'  the

Stonebys are supposed to belong to a good
family,  be hanged if I know who doesn't
belong to a good family hereabouts I  we
shall have to belong to a good family ourselves,
next."

"So we shall, very soon," said Etta, archly.

That is not ' belonging,' you goose. Never
mind, it's all humbug ; one family is as good
as another, I say. And the Stonebys aren't
half bad when you get to know them, neither.
I say, Eosamund," as she re-entered, 'Hie
girls must call on the Stonebys."

I will take them wherever they would
like to go," replied she, with that new-born
gentleness still pervading her demeanour ;
we have but few neighbours, but they will
all be very glad, I am sure," and she looked
courteously round.

There are the Waterfields," proceeded
Gilbert, thus encouraged. " What Waterfields
are there now at home ? "

Could Eosamund but have answered "None" !
She would have given much, very much at the

moment, to have known and announced that
her old friends were still absent ; but as it
was, she was but too unfortunately well aware
that all, even to Diana, had returned with
their mother on the previous day.

Her aunt Julia she had scarcely cared about,
and the Stonebys were nothing to her, but she
did for a moment shrink from presenting Em
and Etta to the eyes of the fastidious Water-fields.
In old days the Waterfields had been
wont themselves to experience anxiety in
bringing this or that stranger beneath the
range of Lady Caroline's survey,  they had
confided to herself their doubts and tremors,
and had awaited the verdict from her sympathising
lips;  if it had been haughty disdain,
she had softened it down,  if cold approbation,
she had warmed it up ;  but all had
by common consent submitted after a fashion
their judgment to that of the omnipotent
dame. Of course Rosamond had pouted and
flouted ; of course she had tossed up her head,
and given utterance to lordly protest and disbelief,

 but with it all, there had been a secret
sense of superiority ; and that sense  strangely
old and worn out as it seemed all at once to
have become  embittered the present reversal
of everything. In a moment she beheld her
future sisters-in-law with Mrs Wakefield's
eyes, and her own dropped on the floor.

"That will be another 'out' for you," said
Gilbert, reckoning up. " I should say the
Waterfields are good for a tea, or a luncheon
if not a dinner. No ; not a dinner, of course.
No ; of course no one is dining out from this
house at present. But they might go to tea,
Rosamund ? What do you say 1 Another
tea, and musical afternoon, like the first, eh '?
What should you say to that ? Ah ! you two,"
turning to his sisters again, " you know nothing
about that sort of thing yet. Oh dear, no !
Demure as two church mice. You wait a bit.
We'll give you our experience by-and-by."

' Bestow a little of it upon us now, sir,"
petitioned Henrietta, saucily,  " that is, if
Rosamund does not mind," for Rosamund had

averted her head ; '' What about that first
afternoon ? What happened then "? Was it
then you fell in  you know what ? " nodding
delightedly.

"There now, if she has not hit the nail on
the head, the monkey ! '' cried the fond brother,
in an ecstasy. " Who told you that, you little
pug-nosed thing ? " pinching the said feature.
I suppose you think yourself too clever to
live, now.'

Let me go  ha ! ha ! ha !  let me go ! "
screeched Etta. " Get away, you nasty
things "

Etta, Etta," whispered Emily.

He has made my nose red for the evening."

' Which it was before, and shining," retorted
he.

It was not," emphatically. " Was it, Em ? "

'Sh, 'sh, don't be so rough," was Em's rejoinder.
" Can't you see Eosamund is not
laughing ? " in a low voice, as Eosamund
moved away. " Do, Etta  do, Frederick 
not set each other on. Do remember it is our

first evening," admonished she, glancing apprehensively
round. " Don't let us be herding
together; and do, Etta, take care what you
say. Talking about your nose! What will
Rosamond think, if you begin like that ? "

She need not have feared. Rosamund had
not heard a word. Gilbert's opening appeal,
with its allusion, had been enough for her,
and had sent back her thoughts and memory
to the past with a new pang, so fresh and
startling, that she herself recoiled from it.

Lord Portland's denunciations had been
like wine to her flagging energies. They had
poured new life into her veins, and braced and
strengthened every feeble nerve that had been
drooping before. To impress him with a sense
of her intention and fitness to carry out her
own purposes, she had been ready to think no
sacrifice too great,  but her lover was now
every moment undoing all that another had
done for him.

There he stood, and she could not but own
him unchanged, unaltered  all that he had

ever been. He had developed no vices, bared
no hidden depths, sprung upon her no unsuspected
and detestable traits of character. Sofar
from this, she had not even learned any
trifling inclinations, nor become familiar with
any opinions or feelings which had not been
boldly proclaimed at the outset. All with
him had been open as the day : in her alone
had been the change.

Heretofore she had been blind  now she saw.

The mist had cleared away, and in the terrible
new-found daylight, all that had before
been but dimly viewed, stood out un-bleaching.


Could she ever own it ? Could her pride
ever stoop to make so humbling an admission ?
Could her justice ever offer so hideous an insult?


Her lip trembled as at the moment came a
peal of merry laughter from across the hearth,
and it was a sob that she swallowed in her
throat, when they thought she coldly turned
away.

Gilbert, with an arm around each fondling
sister, by turns whispering in the one ear and
the other, felt as if he had allowed his old
pets to usurp him too completely, as he also
marked the retreating figure ; and by no
means ill pleased that his fair betrothed should
seem to think the same, he now shook the
others gaily off, and advanced to make his
peace.

They want me to tell tales," he cried,
"but I know better. We can keep our own
counsel, can't we, Eosamund ? It is nothing
to them whether or not it was a case of love at
first sight, is it ? ''

She smiled faintly.

I shall never forget how you looked when
you came in that day'' proceeded he, sliding
his arm round her waist, despite a shrinking
effort to evade it. " You fairly bowled me
over then and there, as I have told you a hundred
times since, haven't I ? How those dull,
sheep-faced Wakefield girls had not the sense
to see what was up, I can't think. They

VOL. n. P

would go on talking and singing to me. I tell
you, Rosamond, I should never have taken up
with one of them if there had not been another
woman in the world."

'you don't suppose that they " she

stopped.

Oh, we'll give 'em the benefit of the doubt.
Only, you know, there are such a lot of them ;
and they do stand so deplorably in each other's
light. However, Parson Stoneby might do for
one, and I'll see if I can't do something among
our fellows for another. As they are your
friends "

Which you seem to forget," said Eosamund,
struggling with her feelings. " I think, Frederick,
you might choose other subjects for your
sarcasm than the oldest  almost the only
friends I have."

My sarcasm ! Good gracious ! my dear
girl, I meant no sarcasm ; be hanged if I did !
I was in grim earnest, I assure you. I told
them all at the barracks what nice girls the
Waterfields were, and one or two went over.

and liked them awfully ; and it was only the
fact of there being six of them,  come now,
you know what I mean. I thought we had
always agreed about the Waterfields : but you
do turn round upon one so' deprecatingly.
We had not met each other three times when
you confided to me how those girls bored you ;

and now " and he rubbed his chin, and

looked at her as much as to say, " and now,
how is a poor fellow to know where the wind
will shift to next 1 "

'' Whatever / may say," replied Rosamund,
unable to repress herself, " you have no right,
you ought to remember that in you it is a
liberty. Pshaw ! don't look like that," for his
eyes had opened roundly. "I am grandiloquent,
I suppose," forcing a laugh : " excuse
it, please ; it is an old trick of mine to stand
up for the absent. Pray, let us say no more,
and pray, let me go' she added in an undertone,
which had the immediate and desired
effect.

(" Hang it all ! I wish those girls would not

keep watching us, and pretending not to see,"
muttered the repulsed lover, aware that the
twitch of a restive shoulder had emphasised
the peremptory demand. 'they will not
understand that it is only her way. When I
can get 'em alone for a good long talk, I must
drop 'em a hint, once for all")

It appeared that he could not accompany
the party to the Abbey.

Two o'clock ? No, he was certain he could
not possibly manage it, as he had an appointment
soon after three, and well he knew what
two o'clock luncheons meant. If the hour
had been one, he might have had a try for it,
and got off by half-past two ; but after all,
there would have been no depending even on
a one o'clock luncheon at the Abbey. Aunt
Julia, he supposed, hardly knew that such a
virtue as punctuality existed ; and as there
was no saying when they might sit down, so
there was no saying when they might get up
again  and so on, and so on,  considering
which, he thought it best to give up the

whole thing, since there was no sense in a
scramble and a bother.

For the sake of the resolution at the end,
Rosamond foro-ave him all that had sone
before.

She had grown to mind even having Aunt
Julia's little well-known foibles commented
upon. It awoke resentment even to hear so
much as a peccadillo noted in those whom she
was fast learning to rank as her own people,
with whom Major Gilbert had nothing to do,
and of whom he had no business to speak :
and the easy manner in which he on his part
adopted all relationships, and in especial the
familiar intonation of his ' Aunt Julia," was
something in itself sufficient to provoke a
most perplexing and unfortunate fit of the
sulks. On such occasions he could not for
the life of him think what he had done.

As often  more often than not, it would be
something entirely to the good lady's credit
which had been dropped, and yet he would
see his mistress's brow stow black as night,

and her eyes beneath gleam blue and threatening.


' She is so infernally sensitive, that is the
only fault I have to find with her  and after
all, that's breeding," he would console himself.
"There's no judging a thoroughbred
by ordinary rules. I know that at bottom
she is my own dear, jolly, little girl ; and it
will be no bad thing for the other fellows to
find that Mrs Frederick Gilbert means to keep
'em in their places. Dale's wife and Jekyll's
wife won't be quite as thick with Lady Caroline
Liscard's daughter as they suppose," and
such a reflection was sufficient to restore immediate
serenity.

He would even chuckle in anticipation of
having a wife whose spirit would do for him
what he had never been able to accomplish
for himself.

It had been one of the sources of his popularity
that he could not give the cold shoulder
to the tiresome and objectionable ; and that,
though a sufficiently strict regimental major,

and thoroughly capable of maintaining military
order and discipline when within barracks
 at other times and in other places he
was in no respects formidable ; and he was
secretly aware that it would add to his dignity
to be more reserved, important, and exclusive.


His marriage would do this for him. A
married man, aided and abetted by his wife,
could take a new departure ; and when,
added to this, there was the having wedded
a grand-daughter of the family held in first
repute in the neighbourhood, every one would
see that he had a right to a step in the social
scale. Had Rosamund been the heedless,
flighty young girl he had at first found her,
she might indeed have charmed, but she could
never have awed ; whereas now !  and he felt
that now she could awe even himself. Unfortunately,
as we know, the forbearance engendered
by these agreeable ruminations was
thrown away upon its object.

Eosamund would now scarce make an efibrt

to conceal displeasure or annoyance ; and thus,
on the present occasion, when it was a question
of his going or not going to the Abbey,
whereas he himself debated the ro5 and cons
with all imaginable earnestness, his sisters
meantime hanging on every breath, as if on
the event depended all their promised pleasure
the one who should, who ought to have
been at least as, if not more, deeply interested
than any, yawned almost in her lover's face,
hummed a tune only half inaudibly, and the
moment the conclusion was arrived at, introduced
another topic without a syllable of
demur or reOTet.

The good effects of the garden scene were
fast passing away.

Why should she regret, forsooth ? She had
never asked him to go. He had never been
invited. Who was to say that Lady Julia
even wished for his company ?

As a matter of fact, she knew very well that
Lady Julia wished for nothing of the kind ;
and on Miss Gilbert's eager presentation of

her brother's apology on the following day,
this was allowed to be tolerably apparent.

My brother bade me say how extremely
sorry he was to be prevented coming with us'
began Miss Emily, to whom the message had
been intrusted, and who had undertaken to
deliver it, nothing doubting. '' He has a very
important engagement at three o'clock, and ashe
could not be sure of getting back to Long-minster
by that time, he felt it would be wise to
give up coming at all. He hoped you would
be so kind as to excuse him. Lady Julia."

Lady Julia looked at the speaker. If she
had given utterance to what was in her heart,
she would have said, ' And who are you to
inform me of all this 1 Had any apology
been required  which was not the case, since
I never asked, nor meant your brother to
come  it was not your place to make it."

As, however, this must be for herself alone,
she could outwardly only take refuge as her
niece before her had done, in a look of satisfaction,
almost too obvious to escape notice.

She had scarcely dared to hope that Major
Gilbert would not come. He would certainly
not hesitate about a welcome. He had shown
too often already that he knew his privileges
and meant to claim them, for any bashfulness
to arise at this period.

More than once during the past weeks he
had put in an appearance just when she was
sittings down to table at two o'clock, and had
eaten a partridge and a couple of roast apples
her favourite luncheon  with the appetite
of a healthy, and the appreciation of a hungry
man. Sometimes ere she could get out in the
morning, he would be tapping at the pane of
her boudoir window with his walking-stick,
asking for a message for King's Common, or a
companion on his walk thither. The Abbey
lay between Longminster and King's Common,
therefore it was scarce a ten minutes' loss to
run up to the house and back ; and as he had
told his sisters, he fancied Lady Julia liked
the attention. As a fact it worried her beyond
everything. She never felt safe from

him. She would find him on her return from
her afternoon drive, comfortably ensconced in
an easy chair over the drawing-room fire,
perusing the newspaper. He would sometimes
dash in later still, quite late, on his
way back, after dining with the Liscards, for
no reason, as it appeared, whatever. He liked
to think he was at home at the Abbey  that
was the real truth ; and as he had never fully
awakened to the fact that he was not, he
imagined that it only needed perseverance to
make him so. "I am looked upon quite as
one of the family already," had been an early
boast, but he still felt the necessity of making
it good on every possible occasion. On the
present one, his regrets had been doubled,
since they were not only for his own and
Rosamund's benefit, but for that of his sisters
also ; and in the delivery they lost none of
their importance, not even the slightness of
Lady Julia's " Indeed 1 " nor her serene dismissal
of the subject, being sufficient to overturn
it.

My brother said he knew you would
understand. His time is not his own. He
is not his own master," proceeded the deputy,
volubly ; "at least that is what he told me
to say,  for of course there is at present no
one over him at the garrison. He has been
in command there for some months. But
the gentleman who has made the appointment,
is coming from London ; and my brother
has to meet him at a certain time "

No doubt. I quite understand." Even
the tender-hearted Lady Julia was obliged
to exert herself. " Eosamund, my love ! "
turning to her niece  but having got so far,
the good lady suddenly found she had nothing
to go on with.

She had felt absolutely obliged to put an
end to Miss Gilbert, but not being versed in
incivility, the attempt had almost ended ina
dead lock. " You walked, I suppose 1 "
came at length in a somewhat lame conclusion.


There was no doubt about their having

walked; their boots and skirts were mud-stained,
and their cheeks  all-but Eosamund's
were rosy and blooming. The contrast appeared
suddenly to strike Lady Julia.

You look quite tired, dear child," she
added, tenderly. " You have not been walking
much of late. Still, the distance is not
great," and again she glanced uneasily at the
slight figure, which drooped wearily into a
chair, while the hat fell back from a forehead
paler than its wont, round which the
dark, moist rings of hair bestrewed themselves.


"I think I am a little tired. Aunt Julia."

And  and warm," said her aunt, leaning
over her. "Yet the day is not very warm.
Your hands are so hot "

Oh, never mind them."

"And and "

Leave me alone ; there's a darling ! "
whispered Rosamund. " I  I don't think I
am quite well to-day."

Not well ? Cold 1 Sore throat ? headache,

my love ? There is a great deal of
illness about, and Dr Makin has several cases
of scarlet fever in the village. He told me
so yesterday. Oh, my dear child, I do trust
you have not taken scarlet fever. You might
easily have caught the infection, either at
church or school "

"Would God I had!"

So low and anguished was the cry, that it
escaped every ear but that on the strain to
catch it ; but the effect on Lady Julia was
all that might have been expected.

She saw,  she saw at last.

The shuddering accents, the exceeding bitter
moan, with its accompaniment of averted eye
and trembling lip,  oh, what else could it
mean than the one thing  misery of heart
and mind, not of the mere body ?

And then, in an instant, all that Portland
had ever said or pointed at, rushed back upon
her amazed and awakened recollection, sharp
and distinct, now that the lightning-flash of
revelation had struck it.

He had hinted that Gilbert was not appreciated,
not beloved as he ought to be ; and
such must indeed be the case.

But  not beloved 1 That meant as much
to her  or so she fancied  as to the unhappy
wretch himself. It meant  it meant  oh,
what did it not mean *?

And she could do nothing, say nothing,
and learn no more at this most unfortunate
moment  a moment which, under other
auspices, might have been laden with meaning
and result ! Rosamund's convulsive brow,
her despairing whisper and in-drawn breath
must have been the outcome of a great internal
convulsion, not to be altogether repressed
; and who could tell what might not
have been allowed or betrayed had she but
been permitted to have had the opportunity
to herself? Could she but have held her
darling to her heart, and pleaded for a confidence
! Of late, confidence had been withheld
 and that for the first time in Rosamund's
young life. Was it now to be

restored and renewed, or . She started

forward and welcomed Clementina Stoneby
by kissing her on both cheeks; and it was
by the merest chance that she just missed
kissing Miss Stoneby's brother also.

CHAPTER XXIV.

TO-DAY she CARED FOR NO ONE.

It is hard to personate and act a part long ; for where truth is not
at the bottom, nature will always be endeavouring to return, and will
peep out and betray herself one time or other. "Tillotson.

Lady Julia had, as we have said, been
rendered so insensible to the outward scene
by her own internal emotions, that she
narrowly escaped outraging all propriety by
saluting her parish priest on the spot with
the kiss of charity ; and even, had he taken
advantage of her bewilderment, and presented
his close - shaven cheek for the embrace,
she would not only have bestowed it
without hesitation, but would have been
completely oblivious of having done so then
and thereafter.

VOL. II. Q

The very ground she trod on seemed to
shake beneath her.

She had been to the full as much rejoiced
as Portland had known she would be, to
hear that he had secured the Stonebys' support
for the occasion ; yet she beheld them
enter not only without any token of joy,
but with a dazed and stupefied air, as though
wondering what chance had sent them her
way that morning  and presented them to
the Miss Gilberts, and watched the re-adjustment
of the circle as though it concerned
anybody rather than herself.

Her heart  if not her eye  was for that
listless form in the background,  that wreck
of what had once been her bright, bold Rosamond.
AVhat havoc had here in a few brief
weeks been wrought ! Oh, how strange that
it had been suffered to pass unmarked and
unacknowledged before ! Oh, how cruelly
neglectful had she been !

Yet had the fond creature paused to weigh
the matter, and cast her eye backwards in the

new light thus shed upon the past, she might
have found wherewith to excuse herself. Rosamond,
indifferent to what all others thought,
had made an effort, faint enough in truth, but
still an effort towards keeping up appearances
when in the presence of her aunt  and had
succeeded only too well. Only to-day, and
only as it were at this eleventh hour, was the
mask dropped. To - day, the unhappy girl
cared for no one.

The sociability of the rest of the party, however,
came to the aid of Lady Julia ; Miss Gilbert
was being attended to by Mr Stoneby,
Henrietta by his sister ; all looked well satisfied,
and in no need of their hostess. She
had time to collect herself, to remember that
for the present she had a part to play, and to
endeavour to thrust into a corner the tumultuous
tide of inquiry and research which had
burst in upon her with such sudden and overwhelming
force.

How placid the rest of the hearty looked !
How easy and informal was the group ! It

had not occurred to either Rosamund or Clementina
to change their usual morning frocks ;
and indeed the neat, grey homespun, and the
plain, black merino, were alike suited to the
weather, the roads, and Lady Julia herself.
Lady Julia was likewise in her everyday
gown, her " paramatta," with its crape somewhat
too deep to please her maid, who loved
to be in the fashion.

There was no one, therefore, to interfere
with the glories of Emily and Henrietta, who,
resplendent in claret velvet and plush, with
smartly twisted hats, a vast amount of neckerchief
and handkerchief, and perfectly spotless
gloves, were happily conscious of being by far
the finest folks in the room.

It must be owned that those gloves gave
one person present a pang. Clementina had
by mistake caught up a very old pair, worn
at the tips and short of buttons ; but she had
comforted herself with the certainty that Rosamund
would not be able to cast a stone at her
in this respect. Rosamund was so much in

the habit of running over to the Abbey at all
times and seasons, that as it was merely going
from one little woodland path to another fora
short mile, no addition was required to her
garden toilet ; and she had begun to disdain
gloves as soon as she disdained Miss Penrose.

True to herself, she sat hatless and gloveless
now.

But on the other hand, the spruce, suburban
young ladies were a treat to behold, from
the neat gold bands round each daintily ruffled
throat, to the shining heels on each delicately-pointed,
patent-leather boot.

The heels indeed shone in adversity  as
lanterns in the dark. They had been cruelly
used, those poor boots ; they had been forced
through miry, briary ways ; and soft and
moist, scarcely showed to the advantage they
should have done, beneath costumes so elegant.

"What can Rosamond have been thinking
of?" was the first and very natural thought
which occurred to the country parson's sensible
little sister, with a glance at her own

stout and serviceable foot gear. " She has
allowed these poor girls to trick themselves
out as if for a lounge in a London park, and
has then trotted them through the short cut
here, though it is one long sop ! And only
to lunch with Lady Julia, too ! Lady Julia,
who wears her old clothes longer than any
other woman in the parish ! And Eosamund
has not taken a bit of pains with herself She
looks tumbled, dishevelled, and  oh dear ! 
how cross and unhappy ! I think she has
not looked happy at all of late. I wonder

but then she had to attend and reply

to Henrietta, who had put forth a sentiment,
and further wonder and conjecture had to be
adjourned. Henrietta was next to her, and,
truth to tell, it was a pity that the chairs
were so close together, and that both were in
the full light of the largest window. Miss
Stoneby's gloves looked simply disgraceful.
She smuggled one hand under the cover of
a small table near, and took out her handkerchief
and held it crushed up in the other, and

SO did her best. If she could have but taken
them off, like Rosamond ! But she was not
in a relation's house, and Clementina needed
no one to teach her to behave nicely. 'quite
a little gentlewoman," had been Lady Julia's
speedy verdict after the preliminary interview;
and even Lady Caroline had not demurred to
the phrase, but had only hoped in private that
Portland did not think so likewise.

If Portland had ever thought about it at
all, her laborious efforts to satisfy her curiosity
would in all probability have produced
their natural fruits ; but beginning by being
indifferent, he had remained so. He had on
this occasion only waited for the Stonebys'
coming to present himself, and would have
allowed as much if any one had asked him,
for sister and brother had an artificial importance
at the moment very different to any
Lady Caroline had ever dreaded. What she
had once longed for, plotted for, and well-nigh
despaired of, had actually, and within the
briefest of periods, come to pass  Rosamond,

and Rosamond only, now occupied Portland's
thoughts. He had parted from his cousin on
the previous evening in such fashion as made
it impossible that they could meet again without
some confusion, some consciousness ; and
she, on her part, had felt almost certain that
he would not risk a meeting at all. All
through the long, weary, hot, and feverish
hours of the past night, when either dozing
and dreaming fitfully, or lying with eyes wide
open, gazing into the moonlight of a cloudless
sky, the scene she had gone through  that
strange scene within the dim shades of hedge
and laurel, with all its bitters and its one
sweet  had been ever present to her. She
had in fancy heard herself speaking as she
had never spoken  had only longed and
burned to speak,  delivering the scornful
defiance, the crushing sarcasm, the flat
denial which would have so utterly put him
to rout  if only, only she could have
uttered it.

All the words she might have said, and had

not said, or bad not been able to say, had
crowded in all too late upon lier ; how came
it that she had been so slow, so stupid, so
cowardly at the time? How had she not
silenced her accuser at the outset with one
of those swift and sharp tit-for-tats which
had ever been handy on her tongue ? She
had let him say things which she could never
forget. His whole bearing she could never
forget. It had made a breach between them
which could never be healed. And all the
time, and far beneath this boiling, bubbling
current of wrath, there had rung two notes
of the sweetest music ; and " dear Rosamond
" had atoned for all.

A deep flush mounted to her brow as Hart-land
now entered, and presently approached
her.

Taught by Lady Julia, he had already made
his bow to the strangers, lingered a moment
by Clementina Stoneby, and nodded and
smiled to her brother ; and then  when he
could no longer avoid doing so  he made his

way slowly up the room, to where Rosamond
sat apart.

The two hands met, but neither looked at
the other. Stoneby, who had happened to turn
his head that way, felt a curious sensation at
the moment.

He had thought, until within a few hours
aero, that he knew Lord Portland as himself.
By putting two and two together, he had been
perfectly cognisant of the family arrangement,
which, if it had been carried out, would have
secured an ample fortune and a fair bride to
his friend, and while he had perhaps secretly
marvelled at Portland's rejection of both, he
had respected his disinterestedness.

It was strange, it was passing strange that
he, that any one could resist that bewitching
creature,  alas ! poor Jack  and many a time
and oft had the gentle scholar mused over the
ways and dealings of that mysterious overruling:
Providence which would at times seem
to mock with its gifts, by offering them to
those who value them not, while others eager

and longing, behold them only afar off. But
now it seemed on a sudden, that the end had
not been yet come at.

That there was a shadow, an embarrassment
in the meeting between the cousins, he felt
instinctively ; and for it, Portland's confessed
antipathy to Gilbert scarcely accounted.

What Portland had said of Eosamund herself
flashed through his mind. At the time
he had not given it serious consideration;
he had thought it wild talk ; and had told
himself that the speaker, misled by his own
feelings, had been carried too far. But in
spite of himself, he now experienced a cold
misgiving. He thought he must make a
venture, in order to lay it to sleep. Gilbert
(no doubt incited thereto by his betrothed)
had that morning sent him a handsome cheque
for the relief of a poor family in the parish
upon whom great distress had fallen.

He would go up to Miss Liscard now, and
speak handsomely of the liberal-minded donor.

It might be that the benevolent action had

merely proceeded from a desire to stand well
with the Liscards, whose tenants the sufferers
were,  it might be that the money was the
mere overplus of a full purse, to be scattered
lavishly by a prosperous lover in his hour of
triumph,  it might, on the other hand, proceed
from a higher motive ; but from whatever
source sprung, the gift was a valuable
and generous one, and it would be only
seemly that he should speak of it, and speak
with gratitude.

I suspect I have to thank you for the
great pleasure I received this morning," he
accordingly began, drawing near, when it had
become plain that his host was standing
mutely aside, and that nothing more was
going to be said or done for the nonce. " I
never was more surprised, and it is really too
kind of Major Gilbert."

'' What is too kind ? " said Rosamund,
scarcely lifting her eyes.

She would have answered more civilly if he
had introduced any other name.

'' His handsome donation. No doubt you
were the kind promoter "

I have heard of no donation," interrupted
she, as cold as ice.

Indeed ! Oh, I certainly thought I could
not be mistaken as to whom I was indebted."

No answer.

He did not even tell you he was going to
send it ? "

"No. Why should he"? I dont know
what you mean. What has Major Gilbert " 
(it appeared as if the very name came out with
an effort)  " been doing '? "

All that is kind and praiseworthy, I assure
you. But," reflecting, " I hope I am not
breaking confidence. Perhaps I should not
have spoken "  as a sudden remembrance of
a rapid scrawl in postscript, " Oblige me by
not mentioning this' dawned upon him.
Could it have been really meant to be acted
upon ? To tell the truth, it had never once
occurred to him that the writer had so
meant it.

Now Gilbert bad. In matters of business
he was strictly business-like, and to underline,
emphasise, and repeat was not his way.
In simply adding the above brief clause, he
had thought he had done sufficient to ensure
the wish being attended to. " Dear me ! "
said Jack, feeling rather ashamed of himself,
it really did not occur to me that he had
intended I should keep it from you."

At last he had succeeded, and her curiosity
was piqued.

When you have told me, Mr Stoneby,"
quoth Rosamund, with a flash of her old
vivacity, *sit will be time enough to decide
whether you ought to have done it or not.
Pray, then, let us hear this wonderful secret."

Will you stand between me and Major
Gilbert if I reveal it ? "

At that moment she looked as if she would
not have stood between anybody and Major
Gilbert  as if his very presence would have
sent her from him, driven her forth, it mattered
;iot where.

"This is absurd," said she, starting to her
feet ; and Lady Julia's " Luncheon, my dear''
and her tender drawing of her niece's hand
within her arm the next moment, seemed as
the shelter to which the impetuous girl had
sprung.

You want your luncheon, don't you, love 1 "
whispered the kind aunt, giving the aforesaid
hand a little pressure; "not very bright to-day,
I can see, darling." Then lower still, " I will
try to like them, Rosamond  I will really
try ; and they are very nice, I am sure, are
they not "? " added she, scarce knowing what
she said, in a vague desire to comfort and cheer.

Eosamund gave a little laugh. As if anything
now could do any good ! What were
poor Em and Etta to her? They were but
small parts, fractions of the hopeless, miserable
whole.

They were now on in front, reluctantly
leading the way, or, to speak more correctly,
being herded onwards by those behind, whom
they in vain attempted to let pass.

Little Clemmy Stoneby, stumping sturdily
alongside, being quite aware that she and they
were in their right order of precedence, marvelled
much at their uncertain, wavering
movements and wistful countenances ; but
she could not impart to them any of her
own composure.

Like their brother, they were thrown out by
anything new and unfamiliar ; and as they
had never before seen so stately an affair
conducted so simply, it was not until all were
seated, and the blinds had been drawn down
because the sun had come out and was in
Henrietta's eyes, that they severally began to
recover.

One was on each side of the host; Mr
Stoneby sat on Lady Julia's right hand,
Rosamund opposite to him, and next her
was Clementina, pulling off her shabby little
gloves as fast as she could, and with her
round, good - humoured face restored to its
wonted serenity by the process. Her mind
was now at rest  and perhaps as much could

not have been said of any one else present.


The Miss Gilberts were, however, in a state
of alternate anxiety and elation, divided betwixt
astonishment at their present exceeding
good luck and their desire to comport themselves
creditably under it. They had not of
themselves selected these favoured seats ; and
having merely obeyed by instinct the authoritative
glance of the old major-domo, and the
footman's significant drawing back of the
chairs in question, they had no qualms of conscience
on that head.

The only thing was, they did hope that
Eosamund knew how it had been done, knew
that they had not been to blame, that they
had not encircled Lord Portland thus of their
own free will. They had begun to stand inconsiderable
awe of their future sister-in-law,
and had found that every hour increased
rather than diminished the feeling. If she
had frowned and looked indignant at this
crisis, it would have been unfortunate indeed.

VOL. II. R

But they could not catch her eye at all ;
she was dreamily gazing through the great
bay-window, and they came to the conclusion
finally that they had nothing to fear. Their
spirits rose ; and with a young man, and a
nice young man, and a peer of the realm, to
talk to, they could talk against anybody.
Henrietta, as usual, led the way.

"What a lovely country this is. Lord Hart-land
; and what a lovely place King's Common
is ! Such lovely gardens,  and such a lovely
park,  and that lovely old avenue,  and  oh,
it is all so lovely ! "

You are not seeing it at its best," replied
he, good-humouredly. "It is kind of you to
be so charitable. AVe think it looks a little
dreary just at this time."

'' Indeed, I cannot believe it could ever look
dreary," cried she, "nor this lovely Abbey
neither. Emily and I said so to each other
ever so often to-day, did we not, Emily ?
Rosamund said she thought it dull."

"Did she?" he stole a long, furtive glance

up the board, but Miss Henrietta was helping
herself to potatoes, and did not see it.

Only King's Common, of course. Oh, not
the xlbbey,  not your place," explained she,
swiftly ; " but I am sure it is because Rosamond
is not very well this autumn. My
brother thinks the shock upset her ; so, naturally,
she takes a gloomy view of things."

"Yes."

We don't think it dull ; we never saw
anything prettier than those trees we passed
under to-day. They were perfectly red allover;
and that lovely view from the white
gate."

*' Oh, you came that way. You must have
found it wet under foot."

It was, rather ; but then it was so lovely.
Emily, where did Rosamond say that lovely
path led to 1 All the way to some place three
miles off  what was it ? "

I daresay Lord Portland can tell you,
considering the path leads through his own
woods, and belongs to himself," observed

Emily, severely. ( " Just like her, the stupid
thing ! ") " How charming it must be," turning
affectedly to him, ''to be able to walk on
and on for ever in your own woods ! Rosamond
says you can walk about all day and
never go outside them, and never re-cross the
path."

They are nice enough in summer,  I
should have preferred the road myself today."



*' We did get rather torn and dirty. The
bramble branches were so long, and stuck tons."


** Followers, you know," tittered Etta, growing
coquettish. Could she have known what
a vision the little word recalled ! Portland,
who was pouring himself out a glass of water,
raised his eyes, dropped them again, and then
behind the tumbler which he held to his lips,
took a second long, stolen, earnest look at his
cousin. That old, old scene of the " follower " !
That pleasant walk ! That merry talk ! That
time when he might  oh, he had let it all

pass; and now the *' follower" held on, and
he could not tear him off, as he could once

have done,  as he had done,  as . For

full a minute the present scene was lost in the
past.

Before the meal was over, he had looked at
Eosamund many times. He could not tell
what to think about her.

At one time the soft, curved, pear-shaped
cheek next him would be suffused in deepest
crimson, at another pale as death,  one moment
she would be talking fast and eagerly,
at another lost in reverie ; but two things
she never did,  she neither tasted a morsel of
the food before her, nor did she once turn her
head his way.

She will never forgive me," was his conclusion.


Emily Gilbert had now turned to Clementina,
and was doing her best to talk of parish
matters, and betraying a large share of kindly
ignorance on the subject.

There were but few really poor people round

her own home, she averred, most of the people
were well-to-do small tradespeople and artisans,
a good many of whom had employment
in divers large works near.

They had no cottagers, no labourers : oh no,
they lived far too near London for that : in fact
they called themselves Londoners; ten minutes
took them to a London station.

For her part she loved the country. How
delightful it must be to live in such a pretty
neighbourhood as this, for instance !

And what a sweetly pretty church !
Would Miss Stoneby take them over it
some day ? Oh, any day would do. Next
week, perhaps. They were not going away
just yet. And the cottages ! Those low,
thatched roofs, so curiously close down over
the windows and doors, how cosy, how comfortable
they looked, and so picturesque !

More picturesque than comfortable," replied
downright Clementina. " Unless those
thatched cottages are kept in thorough repair
which is constantly being needed, and very

expensive to have done  they are not weatherproof.
Lord Portland's cottages are always
well looked after," she added, with a smile to
him, for some vigorous repairs, in which the
parson's sister had been keenly interested, had
just been carried out ; " but I cannot say
the same for our other landlords. We have a
sad case in point, A portion of a roof fell in
the other night, in the midst of that hurricane
of rain and wind, and it broke the furniture
all in pieces, and the poor man who was in
bed in the next room, too ill to move, had
to lie there hour after hour, expecting that
every blast would bring down the remainder
of the roof upon his own head."

Was there no one to move him ? Why,
I would not have let him lie still there," cried
Miss Gilbert, who was energetic like her
brother, and was quite equal to having carried
forth the invalid in her own arms, and would,
moreover, certainly have done so, had she
been by.

*' There was no one in the house but two

small children. His wife died some time
ago, and the person who looked after him
had chosen to take herself off for the
night."

*' The wretch ! Surely, Miss Stoneby, you
won't let her go back ? "

No, indeed'' said Clementina, pleased with
the interest her little tale had aroused, for now
all the table was listening. " We have taken
means to prevent that. And some one else,
Miss Gilbert, has done more than any of us.
Your brother "

I declare I was thinking of Frederick. I
was wishing he could hear you. He would
be sure to give you something. You catch
him, and tell him what you have told us.
Miss Stoneby, and you see if he does not
give you something."

I don't need to wait for that," quoth the
pleased and amiable Clemmy, looking round
with a glow of anticipated triumph in her
forthcoming announcement. " You have
shown how well you know your brother, and

how correctly you judge what he would do.
He sent Jack a ten-pound note for the poor
man this morning."

There was a general murmur of applause.


There now, that was Frederick all over'
observed Henrietta, when the hum had died
out. " He never waits to be asked twice, does
he, Em ? We think a good many times before
we try to get anything out of him, Em and I,
just because he is so good-natured. And when
it's for any charity or collection, though he
teases ever so much first, he always gives us
something good at last."

And he never says a word about it," added
Emily ; " he will never tell us a word about
this ten-pound note, will he, Etta 1 "

(" Dear me ! " reflected Jack Stoneby, all
parson at the moment, " how I wish 1 had
known of this worthy gentleman's proclivities
before ! I must certainly  yes, I certainly
must make up for lost time now, however")


{" Another in the eye for me," reflected
Lord Portland at the same instant. "But
if I have got to like Gilbert, I vow
Jack has got to like him too. And as
for Rosamund  Rosamund shall not marry
him")

CHAPTER Xxi

A MISERABLE HOUR.

Nought is there under Heaven's wide hollowness
That moves more deare compassion of the mind
Than beauty brought t' unworthie Wretchedness
Through envie's snares or fortune's freaks unkind."

Spenser.

Rosamund did not indeed look a bride for anyone
the next minute.

She had been absently paring a russet apple
on her plate, having taken no part in the foregoing
discussion, when on a sudden the fruit-knife
dropped from between her fingers, her
cheek crimsoned with a deep wide-spread stain,
and an exclamation of surprise  almost of
anger  escaped her.

Others at the same moment turned their
kads, for there in the doorway, which a footman

had just thrown open, stood Major Gilbert
himself, all eagerness and happy explanations.
His appointment had been put off to another
day ; he had received the telegram postponing
it an hour before, on the arrival of which he
had at once ordered his trap and driven over
at the best rate he could, knowing he should
be late, but feeling confident of catching up
the party at some point of the luncheon,
and being able to make up speedily for lost
time. To suppose for an instant that he had
by any chance not done the right thing, was
the very last idea that would have occurred
to him : he had counted on the joy his tardy
appearance would occasion, all the way as he
came along.

'* Anything will do," he said heartily ; " but
I did not think you would have got on so far,"
looking round on the blue-and-gold dessert-plates.
"Are you not rather exceptionally
punctual to-day ? " to his hostess. " To tell
the truth, Lady Julia, I was shabby enough
to confide in my sisters yesterday that the

Abbey was not of all places the one most
noted for punctuality. I had been reckoning
on that, I am afraid. Well, Eosamund, so here
you are," patting her shoulder as he passed
to his chair from shaking hands all round the
table. *' And so you all got here safe and
sound 1 Dirty work walking to-day, eh ?
Or did you drive ? "

"We walked."

But you will not walk back, my love,"
interposed Lady Julia, beginning to recover
herself. She, in common with all present,
had experienced a certain shock at the 
interruption. The shock  of pleasure
to his two sisters  of mingled pain and
curiosity to the rest, had been succeeded by
a suspension of everything, a numbness,  and
it was well that Gilbert himself was so ready
and able to cover this. Lady Julia, as we
have said, was the first to recover, and even
she recovered slowly and reluctantly. She
felt as if she could never forgive the intrusion,
and yet she knew she must forgive it, must at

least seem not to see, nor to consider it as
such,  it was, it must be looked upon but as
the prelude to many more. As for Eosamund ,
the kind creature would not look at her darling,
so sure she felt that they were once more in
sympathy, as they had ever been. It was
terrible  terrible.

"You will not walk back, my love," said
she, lightly ; " you can have any carriage from
here that you like, you know, in case you forgot
to order one from home."

Thank you, dear auntie,"  always gentle
and soft to her,  " but I did order one : I told
them to send the pony-chaise."

But the pony-chaise only holds two ? "

"It will hold Emily and Henrietta. I
should not drive at any rate ; I have not had
walking enough lately, as you all tell me."

For that very reason you must not overdo
it : no, no, we will see about that"  (sand I
shall have her to myself," thought Lady Julia,
exultingly, " and perhaps, who knows 1")

Not much seeing needed," cried Major

Gilbert's lusty, jovial tones. " I thought that
was going to be the way of it, and so I prepared
a little surprise for that young lady, if
she will deign to accept it. What do you
think I have got here, Rosamund ? Can you
guess ? Oh, I think you can. What but my
own bonny bays again ! " in evident expectation
of creatine: a sensation. '' Going as
sweetly as ever. So we'll trundle the girls
out of the way in the pony-chaise, and then
you will mount to your own perch on the
dog-cart, and we'll have a scamper. You
have no idea how she likes driving tandem.
Lady Julia. You tell her, Rosamund," nodding
across the table. 'you did not know
what luck was in store for you. No more
did I, till this morning. I thought that foreleg
would not have been right for some days

yet."

You are surely not thinking of driving
my niece in a high tandem dog-cart to-day ? "
demanded Lady Julia, with displeasure.

Why not '? " said Gilbert, with his mouth

fall and bis fork midway. He was eating
fast, to make up for lost time, and it is difficult
to eat fast and talk fast at the same time.

She is not fit," protested Lady Julia, still
frowning:. " She "

I am quite fit," said Eosamund, perversely.

*' My dear, you are not. You have not
been well lately, and you owned to me when
you came in that you were tired."

"The air is all she wants," interposed Gilbert;
"air is the very thing for her. That
was why I was so jolly glad about the horses.
I mean to drive her every day I can, now
that the dark bay is all right again. You tell
your aunt, Eosamund, that it is the best thing
in the world for you."

Young people do not always know what
is best," said Lady Julia, stiffly. "If Rosamond
had been as strong as usual it would
have been different ; but "

"Let her speak for herself. Let her say
what she likes," cried Gilbert, not meaning to
be rude, but anxious to have the matter settled.

" I brought the pair on purpose ; but it's
no matter. One of the girls can go with me,
if she's not up to it ; only I thought that

Rosamond " and he looked wistfully into

her face. She was always the first with him,
be the other who it might ; and a pang shot
through the heart of one, at least, present,
who marked and understood the poor fellow's
earnest gaze. Portland smothered an exclamation,
when the cold rejoinder came at last.

I should certainly prefer the dog-cart to
the pony-chaise if it be a choice of evils," said
Rosamond, sullenly ; " so if it is decreed that
I am to drive, let me drive in the dos-cart.
But why I may not do as I choose, I cannot
see. I said I preferred walking. I am sure
walking would be far better for me. You all
make out I am to do what is best for me, and
yet I am not to be allowed to do the very
thing that is ! "

All right ; then we'll walk," cried Gilbert,
giving in at once, with the utmost kindness.
' I'll send the cart on to King's Common 

VOL. n. s

David can take it  and I will escort you back.
There, will that do ? " and he looked as if he
had cut the knot cleverly, and pleased everyone.


If he had, he was not permitted to think so
long.

Surely I need not be such a bugbear to you
all ! Surely this need not be made such a fuss
about, and such a business of ! '' cried Rosamund,
in a high, sharp voice. "It is perfectly
ridiculous for us all to be planning and discussing
a mere nothing, as if it were a matter
of life and death"  drumming impatiently
upon the table. " Why may I not do as I
always used to do, and trouble nobody ? I
never needed any ' escort ' home from here ;
why should I begin all at once to be so particular
1 Do, Aunt Julia, let us come," still
more impatiently ; "we cannot be required to
stay on here for ever. . Here are Portland and
Mr Stoneby to watch Major Gilbert eating his
luncheon, and it seems years since we had
ours ! "

' My dear child ! "

Even Lady Julia was shocked.

*dear Rosamund, you  you forget yourself,"
she murmured, for Rosamund had already
pushed back her chair. " My dear child
dear love, do remember." Then louder,
No, Major Gilbert, pray don't hurry  pray
do not think you are keeping us here. Indeed
none of us wish to go in the least ; it
is only that dear Rosamund feels the heat
of the room a little, is it not, love 1 The
room is very hot, certainly. The sun has
been on it all day, and the day is too mild
for that large fire. The fire is quite too
large. I feel it myself; and the weather
is unseasonable, altogether unseasonable for
November."

'' I have been wanting particularly to see
you, Gilbert," added Portland, doing his part
next. " I am making some alterations in the
stables, and the builder is to be over this
afternoon ; so it is quite a piece of luck your
behoof here at the same time. I had almost

written asking you to meet him, but I let the
post-time slip by''

*rand I too should have written," put in
Jack Stoneby, who had only waited till the
others had done, and who, as he was sitting
next the major, could say his say without
being obtrusive. *' I received your note this
morning, and I cannot tell how to thank you
enough. Your generosity ''

Gilbert kicked his foot beneath the table.
He did not know that his generosity had
been already proclaimed.

All who could, had now done their best towards
atoning for Eosamund's insolent assault,
and her heart swelled with resentment against
each one.

Why should she not say what she chose, be
unfeeling, ungrateful, and rude, if she pleased,
towards her lover ? Gilbert was hers  not
theirs. Surely she might do as she would
with her own ; and all that she had done and
suffered on his behalf, rose up as usual to justify
her. She now longed to break away from

the scene, the hateful room, and the hateful
company,  to rush forth to solitude and passion,
unrestraint and misery.

Strange to say, the three Gilberts were the
ones with whom she was in her heart least
at war. On her aunt, and Portland, and the
Stonebys  all of whom she perceived to be
watchful and anxious, and beginning to interpret
aright  on these she could pour the full
vials of her wrath. The poor Gilberts  they
were as harmless as doves  they alone did not
molest her ; they only were satisfied and unsuspicious,
and, in consequence, to be borne ;
but she saw that Lady Julia was aroused, she
fancied the Stonebys on the alert, and she
knew that Portland knew : they were one and
all intolerable.

The dogcart, the pony-chaise, anything
would be better than that solemn, round table,
surrounded by those many pairs of curious
eyes, which were now turned on her, now on
her lover, and now on the plates before them.
It needed that she clasped her hot, trembling

hands closely on her lap), that she held her
breath and set her teeth tight within her closed
lips, to prevent further exposure and defeat.
That she could not bear.

It seemed now as if the hostess would never
rise ; and as, indeed, Lady Julia would have
sat on till midnight to undo her niece's misdemeanour,
she was now glued to her chair,
thankful as she would have been  almost as
thankful as any one  to quit it. Wild with
vexation, the author of her own discomfiture
had accordingly to endure a prolonged punishment
; while Gilbert, who had been unable to
help feeling hurt, and had gently enough
charged her with unreasonableness in his own
mind, was being comforted and solaced.

Under such treatment he could not but
recover, and though he had just sufficient feeling
on the point to cut short his meal, and
refuse cheese and biscuits, and some young,
crisp, and juicy celery, of which vegetable he
was particularly fond, he was himself again by
the time he had finished.

She should not have snubbed me so before
them all," he reflected; "but, poor girl, she
has so much spirit, I must not be too hard
upon her."

It did not occur to him to wonder why she
should have been inclined to " snub."

Portland was rummaging for cigars when
the ladies at last left the room. " I have lots
in the billiard-room," he said, " but it is such a
way off. I brought some here. I know I put
them down here"  overturning papers, and
peering behind mantelpiece ornaments  " on
purpose to be handy ; for I expect that builder
fellow has come, and we may as well go out at
once."

First say what you think of these," said
Major Gilbert, producing the handsome silver
cigar-case wherewith Eosamund had endowed
him in the early and palmy days of their
engagement. They were moving towards
the door as he spoke, and he looked at it
for a moment tenderly, and, as he thought,
unperceived. "I have some rather good

ones here," and he handed the case to
each.

"I know them," said Portland, joyfully
accepting one ; " if these are the same brand
as the last, they are perfectly delicious."

Do allow me to make you a present of a
box. Lord Portland. They are the same. I
never smoke any other, and I shall be greatly
honoured if you will accept some."

You may be quite sure I shan't refuse
them. I say, how good of you ! I shall look
forward every hour till that box arrives.
Thanks awfully." (Then he turned away
with almost a groan. All on the surface so
smooth and fair, but beneath  what next?
what next ?) . . .

Poor Rosamond, whom to blame or pity
most we know not, but whose state of mind
did not certainly render her the most agreeable
companion in the world at this period, did not
long enjoy the relief afforded by a general
discovery of this fact.

For a brief half-hour she was indeed left in

peace, while Lady Julia explained the mysteries
of some new kind of needlework to
Emily Gilbert, and Clementina piloted Henrietta
through an illustrated manual ; and
during that time she could lie back in the
depths of her chair, speechless and weary,
caring about nothing but to be let alone,
conscious of nothing but the luxury of being
unobserved and unwatched. Gradually, under
the influence of the quiet room, whose
distant murmurs only soothed her ear, and
further refreshed by a cup of hot and fragrant
coffee  Lady Julia's institution, which had
never been adopted at King's Common, though
greatly appreciated by the young ones whenever
they came to the Abbey,  under these
combined narcotics her breathing became
gentler and gentler, her eyelids closed, and
the leavings of her troubled bosom resembled
the slow swell of the ocean after the tumult of
the storm has subsided,  thought was all but
suspended, pain quite, she had nearly sunk
into a slumber, peaceful and sweet as an

infant's, from sheer exhaustion of mind and
body when, as it seemed with a deafening
and odious clamour, an incomprehensible,
cruel uproar, she was all in a moment recalled
to the present scene, and to the entrance of
Eleanour, Violet, and Amy Wakefield, who
were walking up the room.

Waterfields, now ! Waterfields at this most
unfortunate, most miserable juncture !

No words can depict the feelings of the
unhappy Rosamund. She had dreaded their
return, and wished the first meeting well over,
and had wound herself up to carry it off
bravely ; but that they should have her thus
at vantage was unfair indeed.

She had known very well how they felt
about her engagement ; the letters had been
exactly what she had expected. They had
hoped she would "be very happy," and had
been sure Major Gilbert " was very fortunate,"
and she had tossed the epistles scornfully aside,
and had responded in set terms, which had been
understood with equal distinctness by them on

their part. This formality accomplished, there
had been a lull, with an ever-increasing repugnance
towards breaking it. To have it
broken thus ! To have this added to all that
had gone before !

Not only to have her little comforting nap
rudely interrupted at its sweetest moment,
just when senses and sounds were fading
away into the soft, seductive confusion of
dreamland  not only to be recalled to thinking,
and talking, and ceremony, and Lady
Julia's drawing-room, when she would so fain
have been anywhere, anywhere else in the kingdom
 but to be called upon with her present
enfeebled powers to encounter the friends
whose opinion she feared the most in the
whole world, and discuss the subject she
would of all others have avoided !

If anything more had been needed to fill
the cup of bitterness, the presence of Emily
and Henrietta Gilbert supplied it.

This must now be their introduction to the
polite, composed, critical companions of Rosalind's

youth, whose society even Lady Caroline
had cultivated, and whose approbation
even she, in her heart, had considered worth
obtaining.

At no more luckless moment could Em and
Etta have been subjected to first view.

Perhaps nobody looks to advantage during
the torpid, digestive hour immediately succeeding
a heavy mid-day meal, especially if
the room be warm, the windows shut, and the
conversation languid. There is a general air
of plethora about a party so situated. Eyes
grow dull, cheeks pale, expressions inanimate ;
while even the dress would seem to partake of
the same reaction, and is apt to look negligent
and disarranged.

Thus with our spick-and-span young ladies,
who had stepped in so briskly, all tied up,
curled up, and twisted up two hours before ; they
were now limp and sodden; Emily's hat had
crept down over one eye, and Etta's neckcloth
had contrariwise crept up ; while the smart
pin which had heretofore kept it jauntily in its

place, had by some means or other worked itself
loose, and hung forlornly over on one side.

The neat gloves, Clementina's envy, were no
longer there to hide rather large, re d, and ill-shape
hands; and the unsuitability of the
patent-leather boots was more than ever apparent,
now that the mud had dried upon them.

No one else had suffered to the like extent :
true. Lady Julia's cap had slipped slightly
awry, but otherwise she looked much as usual ;
Clemmy Stoneby would always be Clemmy
Stoneby, and from having at no time any looks
to lose, found her advantage at a moment like
the present; but the Gilberts, who were not
without pretensions to beauty of a certain
order and under certain conditions, were, it
must be allowed, hardly dealt with, in being
thus caught and held up to the light ; and the
pang of mortification experienced by Rosamond
in recognising the truth of this, brought
her to herself sooner than anything else could
have done.

It only needed this ! " she said, to herself.

Well, after all, nothing matters much now.
I have got to go through with it all ; and one
thing more or less  still it is hard. I had
meant to be so careful about when and where
the Waterfields saw them. These odious frocks
and hats  and they themselves  I declare
Emily hardly looks handsome at all, and
Henrietta positively ugly. Oh, why  why 

why " and with the ' why, why, why,"

and a long and weary sigh, she had to rise,
feign a wan smile, and drag herself to the front.
The Waterfields, on their part, considered it
rather a happy idea to get over this awkward
meeting when at the Abbey, and under Lady
Julia's wing. They had not anticipated it
over readily themselves, but they had seen
that, could it be come at haphazard, as it were,
it might be shorn of half its disagreeable ; and
accordingly, on hearing at King's Common,
where they had stopped half-way, that Miss
Liscard and her guests were to be found at her
aunt's, they had joyfully followed her thither.
A spice of lively curiosity had been added to

other feelings when the young ladies had been
spontaneously informed who were Rosamund's
guests, and further, that Major Gilbert's sisters
had only arrived on the previous evening.
They had not lifted so much as an eyelash
indeed, in the presence of their informant ; but
no sooner had King's Common been left behind,
than congratulations had passed, and steps
had quickened. There had not been two
opinions as to the advisability of proceeding to
the Abbey ; the advantages of so doing had
been too obvious.

The more the merrier, certainly," Eleanour
had said. " With so many others present, of
course nothing of consequence can be said ;
and even about poor Lady Caroline it would
be difficult to find just the right thing to say,
if we had Rosamund all to ourselves."

They were, we thus see, jubilant and strong ;
while she was weak, worn, and already spent
by contest : everything was on their side,
nothing: on hers.

Dejected, querulous, apprehensive, and suspicious,

with an aching sense of her own folly
and guilt overshadowing every outlook, can it
be wondered at that poor Eosamund was in no
case to hold her own, far less to shield her
friends ? Her friends ? Yes, in that light
must Gilbert and his family now be one and
all regarded. She had brought them there.
She had brought them into notice at all. But
for her  but oh, she must not, durst not think
of this now.

Sick at heart, she exchanged the unmeaning
kiss all round.

How gay and heartless sounded the voices
of the new-comers ! How fresh and insulting
the bloom upon their countenances ! She and
hers all in shadow  they all in sunshine !
Then they sat down, and she heard the lively
buzz begin, and marked the quiet, inspecting
glance, and felt and knew what was being
thought, and told herself she did not care, and
almost lao-hed when Etta said something more
glaringly inappropriate than usual, and laughed
again when Emily's scarlet top-knot lurched

rakishly over, nearly brushing Violet Water-field's
cheek,  and, reckless, told herself it was
all very amusing, and would make an excellent
scene for her old friends to jest over when they
returned home, and  and  what was that ?

The door opening, the gentlemen coming in,
Gilbert's loud full-toned voice dominant in the
doorway, Gilbert's laugh noisily echoing up the
room

I  I  oh, hold me, Eleanour ! " cried

Eosamund, and fell fainting on the floor.

VOL. II.

CHAPTER XXVI.

Unworthy."

' It 'behoves the high
For their own sake to do things worthily."

"It is a case of nervous prostration, Lady
Julia. Complete nervous exhaustion, and
prostration of strength. Miss Liscard has
experienced a severe shock to the system in
that very sudden and  and deplorable death
of her mother ; and coming at such a time
as it did  in connection with the other
event,"  for the speaker was a faithful old
habitue of King's Common, and well up in
its affairs,  "it was altogether more than
this poor young lady could bear. I have
known Miss Rosamund since she was a child.

Nervous  highly nervous  and excitable. It
only surprised me that she did not give way
before ; but she has great spirit  unbounded
spirit. She would confess to nothing when
I questioned her more than once of late about
herself. Now, Lady Julia, this is a case requiring
great care  very great care, and
judiciousness. You understand me 1 Any
return to the scene of her recent distress
would most certainly be detrimental. By-and-by
it may be necessary to try the effects
of a thorough and complete change, but for
the present I must ask you to let my patient
remain here."

' Let ' her remain ! " cried Lady Julia, 
"let' her remain, Dr Makin ! " for her companion
was the village doctor, once or twice
before mentioned, and the two were together
in the otherwise deserted drawing-room, he
having been sent for in hot haste an hour
before ; " why, of course my dear niece remains.
I will not permit her to be removed
by any one. On my own responsibility I

should have insisted upon it ; and of course
now, with your authority to detain her,
nothing can be said."

*' Certainly  certainly you have my authority.
In fact, I should consider any attempt
at removal might be attended with most serious
consequences. The symptoms are too
grave to be trifled with."

'' Quite so. Yes, I am sure they are. Just
what I said myself," and Lady Julia's faint
pink cheeks flushed with a sort of jubilant
hilarity, and her eyes sparkled in a manner
that made the worthy doctor look at her in
astonishment.

"Where should the poor child be but under
my roof ? " proceeded she, briskly. " At whose
house would she meet with greater care ?
Who would watch over her and nurse her as
I should 1 Am I not now in the place of her
own dead mother ? "

(" And a vast deal better fitted to fill it ! "
thought Makin.)

Why, of course Rosamund is my rightful

charge, and I shall give her up to no one,"
pursued the little woman, fierce as a bantam-hen
over one of her brood ; " and I am sure 
yes, I am sure that she is quite ill enough to
warrant my saying so."

Now this was not precisely what her learned
authority had meant to be the result of his
words, and he was just a trifle puzzled inconsequence.
Of Lady Julia's unbounded
affection for her sister's family, and for this
member of it in particular, he was quite
aware ; and yet, in consulting him on the
present alarming occasion, and discussing the
chances of a serious illness to follow, instead
of the tearful and tender anxiety which would
have been only natural, he beheld a curious
satisfaction, even an exhilaration in the good
lady's demeanour which was inexplicable.

Her great, her one thought seemed to be
that the patient was not to be removed, her
one fear lest others should differ on the point.

He thought she did not realise the gravity
of the situation.

She will certainly require very great care,"
he observed, emphatically.

'rand she shall certainly have it," replied
she, with vivacity.

He hardly knew how to make himself more
intelligible. Lady Julia's ideas and his own
were clearly not in accord, and hers not precisely
the sort of care he meant : of her goodwill
he was secure, but of her discretion she
was not at the moment giving him the most
favourable of impressions.

There she stood on the tiptoe with eagerness
; excitement, and apparently really pleasurable
excitement, lighting up every feature,
her words tripping each other up in their
haste, and the lips remaining apart and ready
again for immediate action, even when the
stream was for a brief second checked. It was
with difficulty he obtained an innings at all ;
and it was only by throwing all the authority
he could into a profoundly solemn countenance,
that he found himself in any way able
to cope with the voluble spinster. " I never

knew before what a tongue she had," he
thought.

Could he have put down the whole to agitation
 but Lady Julia was not a person to suffer
from agitation ; her feelings were too simple,
too natural ; her tears too profuse,  even
on hearing of her only sister's startlingly sudden
end she had merely wept and wailed, and
ordered her mourning with heartfelt but perfectly
wholesome grief,  so that her present
humour was against all precedent, and was, in
fact, almost reprehensible.

If there be not the very strictest watch
maintained, and unless my instructions are
carried out to the letter," he pronounced, with
his best frown, '' recollect, your ladyship, that
I cannot answer for the consequences. Your
ladyship will remember that I have warned
you."

I will, indeed, Dr Makin ; and I shall say
so to every one. I shall tell them that you
think very seriously indeed of my poor
niece "

Well, we must take care, Lady Julia.

I should hardly like to say ' very seriously
indeed ' ; I could hardly go so far as that.
I said very serious consequences might ensue
"

"But you do think she requires the

closest attendance, and the strictest guard,"
urged the lady, coming closer, and glancing
round, as though what she was now saying
would not bear the chance of being overheard.
I am sure you think that ? I am sure you
said it ? Do you not ? Did you not 1 " intent
upon her object. " You may be quite, quite
honest, Dr Makin, you may indeed. Is that
not your express desire ? Have I not your
orders for insisting that no one is to be admitted
to her room but myself? No conversation
 no letters "

My dear madam, we must not go too

far. AYe must tread softly, your ladyship,
softly. We must wait and see. For a day
or two I should certainly recommend absolute
repose ; but after that, if Miss Rosamond goes

on favourably, and would like to see a friend
one at a time "

Oh, if you once begin, there will be no end
to it," interrupted her ladyship, snappishly,
and I am sure you did say she ought to see
no one. I assure you, and you may take my
word for it, that if you wish your patient
to be quiet, her only safety lies in your most
positive orders that no one, no one whatever,
is admitted to see her. Dr Makin, you do not
know these Gilberts  forward, pushing people

she stopped, bit her lip, and was aware

of her indiscretion.

The doctor, however, prudently showed
nothing. " Naturally, naturally," he rejoined,
shaking his wise head ; " new connections,
eager to show attention. We cannot wonder
at it  but we must be careful how we permit
it. We must ward them off as civilly as we
can. It would certainly not do to allow them
too much encouragement, and we must run
the risk of giving offence rather than fail in
our duty to our patient. Perhaps it would

be better taken if I were to speak myself
"

Why, yes, that is the very thing I

wish ! " cried Lady Julia, joyfully restoring
him to all her former favour  " the very thing,
my dear Dr Makin, that I am trying to point
out to you. If you would take these  these
strangers in hand, if the prohibition were to
come straight from you, there would be no ill
feeling created, and the effect would, besides,
be much greater ; but if I were to interfere, it
might be supposed that it was I who was trying
to create an estrangement. So now, I see
you understand the position, and how necessary,
how absolutely necessary, it is for you to
speak out boldly. Do not hesitate. A medical
verdict, you know, is never disputed."
And she sighed her relief.

A few minutes before, she had trembled lest
he was about to desert her cause and take service
with the enemy.

The " enemy." That was the light in
which she now regarded Major Gilbert and his

family. Among them they had brought her
darling to this pass, and they should now be
annihilated (at any rate for the present, while
for the future also her hopes now rose) by
this most excellent mouthpiece whom Providence
had sent her. Neither did Makin dislike
his errand.

'sit is undoubtedly indispensable that I
should be plain," he assented, cheerfully ; " and
as your ladyship observes, a physician is
licensed to deal with the unvarnished truth.
I shall not hesitate to "

Forbid their coming to the house ? "

"To Miss Eosamund's room. I presume
you would not wish to have me close your
front door also ? "

She perceived that, whatever she might
wish, she could hardly carry such an injunction
into effect, and once more her brow
faintly clouded over. But it was a great
point gained that she was to have the sickroom
kept sacred ; and with the thought of
that dear form lying there, with the touch of

those clinging arms still hovering round her
neck, that wet cheek still felt on hers, that cry
whose very incoherence had made all clear 
that feeble, imploring cry, " You only, you
only," ringing in her ears  with all of this so
sweet, so inexpressibly SAveet, to her loving
heart, she was fain to be content. Her beloved
was her own once more.

As soon as ever Eosamund should be sufficiently
recovered, there would again be the
fullest confidence between them, and their old
affection would be only re-doubled and intensified
by all that had passed.

The Gilbert episode should be a thing of
the past (Lady Julia was rapid in her conclusions)
; and having become equally obnoxious
to both, its termination should be as equally
looked upon in the light of a deliverance.

And then, after a brief delay  there need
be no hurry, nothing indecent nor unseemly 
but after a proper interval had elapsed, then
surely, surely the dearest project of her heart
might, must, could, and should come to pass.

Had poor Caroline only lived to see it !

But poor Caroline's child should not suffer
from her mother's loss. Here was she, ready
and willing to play a mother's part ; and in
the variety of emotions thus suggested, her
eyes were suffused in happy moisture, almost
before the worthy doctor had put his seal
upon Eosamund's bedroom door.

Eosamund had been carried up to a chamber
next her aunt's  a large, warm, bright apartment
 which, with its faded blue hangings,
its curious walls hung with black-framed engravings,
its small round mirrors, high carved
mantelpiece, roomy couches and chairs, and,
above all, its broad low window-seats, from
which could be seen a far-stretching view of
beechen slopes and sunny uplands, had ever
been a favourite with her.

As a child she had always begged to be ut
to sleep in the huge four-post bed; she had
liked to slumber off gazing upon those marvellous
pictures, and those quaint devices on
the ceiling. She had rejoiced to know that

Aunt Julia was on the other side of the green
baize door, the door which would alone be
visible when the outer one stood open, as she
would have it do when there. The room had
been her mother's, but Lady Caroline had
never so much as heard of Eosamund's predilection
for it. For herself, she had never
slept at her father's house since the day she
had had a home of her own ; and it had never
occurred to either her sister or her daughter
to think it would be in the least degree interesting
to her to learn that on the holiday
occasions when Lady Julia's pet would be
summoned thither, it was the great treat to
both that Eosamund was safe and snug within
the old blue room at nights.

Thither she had now been borne in her
extremity.

It was really almost providential the way
it came into my head," explained Lady Julia
afterwards to Portland, "because you know,
Portland, what my poor head is. And how
I ever came to think at all, what with the

shock of seeing the poor darling lying on the
floor, and hardly knowing whether she were
dead or alive, and all those girls crowding
round, and those officious Gilberts seizing her
hands, "

"My dear aunt, be just. They were rubbing
and chafing them, and that, as you know,
is always considered the correct thing to do
when a person faints, "

Much good it would have done my poor
Rosamund ! Well, well, it was kindly meant,
no doubt, and we were all beside ourselves ;
but if I had not cried out, * Carry her to the
blue room,' there was Major Gilbert tearing
along with her in his arms straight for the
butler's pantry ! "

The best place to go'' said Portland, half
laughing ; ' he knew he should find brandy
there."

The brandy could have been brought, and
was brought immediately  oh, by yourself, I
remember. What we wanted was to get her
things off, to get her undressed ; and so I tried

to explain to him, for at first he had plumped
the poor child down on the sofa here  on
the sofa in this great, hot, noisy drawing-room
! As if she would ever have got better
here ! As if, with him and his stupid,
saucer-eyed sisters standing by, staring at

her "

Now I say, Aunt Julia  now, dear

auntie, this is not in the least like you," said
Portland, very kindly. " Why should you be
so bitter against those poor girls ? "

Why '? Portland ! you know why, too
well  far, far too well. You have yourself
spoken of it. And  and they were dreadful,
beyond what I had even imagined. And to
see them round my darling, taking possession
of her "

Making: themselves far more useful than
the Waterfields did. I doubt if Eosamund
would have come to herself half so quickly if
it had not been for the eldest Miss Gilbert.
I own I was struck with her sense and energy.
And as for Gilbert, what a fine, big, strong

fellow he is ! He picked her up as if she had
been a baby ! "

Oh, big enough," said Lady Julia, scornfully
; " those sort of men, with their buU-
door strength, are useful sometimes : and as
the poor child was only half-conscious, and
seemed scarcely aware of what was going
on, or of whom she was being held by, she
could not have minded."

Do you mean anything by that, ma'am '? "
said Lord Portland, after a moment's steady
look into her face. " Do you mean to say
that you have any reason for  for supposing
that Rosamund would have objected to "

"Now, my dear Portland, were you not
yourself the person to give me the hint 1 "

"But you did not take it?"

Not then ; but I have done so since. I
do now, for I have seen for myself."

What have you seen ? " said he, in a low
voice.

That she detests him, shrinks from him,

VOL. II. u

and recoils from the very idea of having him
for her husband."

'' You are  sure  of that 1 " he said, slowly.

'absolutely  absolutely sure. Oh, could
any one doubt after to-day ? Even before his
ill-timed appearance, her wretched, sorrowful
face, her piteous eyes  my heart was aching
for her ; and Portland, I felt how deeply I had
been to blame for not sooner having perceived
the truth. But you only said he was to be
pitied  you only said he was not being done
justice to  and I was so stupid,  my dear, I
am stupid you know,  that it never once
occurred to me to think ivy I should pity
him. If I had ever for a moment thought
that it was because our dear Eosamund had
changed her mind,  but Portland, will it bethought,
 will any harm be thought of her
for changing it ? Will she be thought to
have  oh dear, how dreadful I  to have jilted
this Major Gilbert ? "

'' You may set your mind at rest. She will
not jilt him."

She says not  that nothing will induce
her to do so."

You have spoken to her, then ? " said
Lady Julia, almost in a whisper. She had
not supposed he had done this.

I have."

'' When ? "

Yesterday evening. There is no reason
why I should not tell you about it," said
Portland, calmly, " especially since Rosamond
will probably do so herself. I found
her in the garden  in the rosery ; and I not
perceiving any one was there till I was close
by  and she not perceiving me till I spoke
to her  I could not help involuntarily playing
the spy, and saw and heard "

''Whatr'

Enough to warrant my taking her boldly
to task for her folly and injustice. That she
has made and is making herself miserable by
her persistence in it, is no excuse for her."

Oh, not so harsh  not so cruel, Portland."

'' I cannot help it, Aunt Julia ; I think Rosamund
is behaving very, very badly."

*' And you are not in the least sorry for
her  "

I did not say I was not sorry for her,"
said he, gloomily.

You have never expressed one syllable of
kindness, of compassion."

'' My compassion is for the wronged and
the innocent."

But she is so young and so innocent herself,"
cried poor Lady Julia, " she did not
know what she was doing. She was driven
into it by her mother's pride and obstinacy.
Heaven forgive me that I should say such a
thing ! " fumbling wildly with the truth, " but
it was so ; it really was so, Portland. My
poor sister was full of 'prejudices, and when
once she had taken up a prejudice, nothing
could move it. And then some of them
being so unreasonable  for they were unreasonable,
and I will say it  how were the
poor children to discover which were, and

up, pleasant young people, but they have
hardly so much as seen them ! And here,
although there are several nice families about
not very near perhaps, but near enough to
have been asked to dine and sleep, or spend
a few days at King's Common  people such
as the AVeybridges, and the Caldecotts, whom
Caroline herself could not have objected to,
yet they were never asked in that way.
She would send them a card for her one large
party in the year I Well, how was poor
Eosamund to tell when her mother was
right, and when she was wrong ? She knows
that I like and approve of many whom her
mother would scarcely speak to ; and she
knew that even those with whose birth and
breeding my sister had no fault to find, were
kept at a distance ! " From sheer lack of
breath the speaker ran down at last.

'' I never heard you speak like this before,"
said Portland.

And I cannot bear to speak like it now.
I cannot bear to say such things ; but it is

only justice to this poor unhappy child that
somebody should stand forward on her side.
Let us be on her side, Portland, whoever
is against her. Let them say what they
will "

I tell you, Aunt Julia, there will be
nothing to be said ; at least, if I know
Eosamund, as I think I do. I wish to
heaven I could think otherwise ! I may be
wrong  I hardly think I am ; but it is my
distinct conviction now that she means to
fulfil her eno:ao:ement at all costs."

Can he not see ? Can he not be made to
see, and free her of his own accord V

She drew closer, and put her hand upon
his arm, as her voice breathed in his ear.
He shook off the hand.

"Think what you are saying  beware of
what you are advising," he replied, in a
deep, stern voice. " Would you bid her
dare to do so base a thing? God help the
poor child, if it is this which she is being
tempted to. Oh, my dear aunt, I beg, I

beseech you, save her from it ; never let the
suggestion cross your lips a second time."

Her eyes fell before his.

All that can be done ought to be done
to put her present conduct in its true light
before her' continued the speaker ; " but it
is not in that way, not in that way that any
high-minded woman should seek to escape
the chain she has forged for herself. One
course only is open to Rosamund, to confess
her terrible blunder, and to bear its terrible
consequences. Any other is beneath her ; unworthy,
most unworthy of that noble nature."

The faltering phrase appeared to escape him
unawares ; he seemed for the time to have
forgotten the presence of another, and to be
but communing with his own spirit : and
while she yet remained mute and abashed
beneath the severity of his rebuke, he slowly
passed out of the room.

Dear me ! I had meant no harm. I
must certainly take care how I say that
again," quoth Lady Julia, promptly recovering

; 'but it had really seemed to me the
very best way in which it could have been
managed."

Meantime Eosamund lay still in the faded
blue chamber overhead, watching the shadows
fall deeper and deeper down upon the wall in
the flickering firelight, as the stars rose, oneby
one, in the pale sky without.

She had no desire to stir, to speak, to
move ; it seemed to her that if she should
never again rise from that bed of weakness
all would be well : she would have found
rest and peace.

With her entrance into that calm abode,
with the nestling down among the softly
wooing pillows, with the departure of all
save that one loved and loving face, there
had fallen such a hush upon her spent and
storm-tossed spirit as she thought she should
never care to break again.

Was she going to be very ill ? Delightful
hope. To be very ill, and have to lie therein
that quiet haven where she had found an

anchorage, for long, long years to come?
To have every entrance from the world
without, sedulously barred, guarded, barricaded
1 To see none, speak to none, communicate
with none \ Oh, what bliss !  what
a heaven already 1

And her aunt had sworn it should be so.
Poor Lady Julia, feverish as herself with
anxiety upon the point, had repeated assurances
and promises over and over again.
"Yes, my dear, dear child, yes; it shall
be as you wish, it shall indeed. I will let
no one near you  no, not even the housemaids,
for old Charlotte and I will do all
the nursing between us. Charlotte will do
everything in the room  I know she will.
You shall not see a strange face. Old
Nanny may come in now and then to sit
by the fire. You would not mind her. She
likes to fancy she is not altogether put on
one side ; and you would not need to talk
to her,  for, my darling, you must not talk,
nor move, nor even think, if you can help

it. You are safe now  safe under Aunt
Julia's care ; and oh, my dear one  my dear
one  Rosamund, my precious, we may be
happy yet ! "

Rosamund had scarcely heard, but she had
felt it all.

Tears had flowed from very thankfulness.

But presently they started again from
another source. She fell to wondering and
recollecting.

What now would be thought about her by
others? What would Portland think, for
one 1 Hitherto he had been so completely
engrossed by Gilbert's wrongs that he had
had no room in his mind for hers. No. Not
for her wrongs, perhaps, but for her misery.
Would he reflect upon it now? Would he
forgive her now ? If she were to grow worse
and die, would he not pity her just a little ?

The pillow was wet beneath her head.

chapter. Overjoyed,
they had then flown out with him, as the sky
had by this time cleared ; and had left the
room with the windows shut and the fire low,
just as it was.

Good gracious ! we left that room in a
pretty state," cried Emily, now. " We never
dreamed of any one's coming to call in this
country place. And Rosamund away too. It
is the mother of those girls who came in at the
Abbey yesterday, I suppose."

"And a precious lynx-eyed mother too,"
added Frederick. "So if you haven't done
the right thing, you'll soon know it. I have
a great mind not to go in. I don't see why I
should. She will have to be civil now she
finds I am booked here, and all's settled ; but
I know better than to believe she is really
over-well pleased. If I had taken up with
one of her daughters "

Surely, Frederick, you will come in; you
will not allow Em and me to go in all by
ourselves," implored the much-alarmed Etta.
We cant go in by ourselves, can we, Em ?
We have never even seen her, and "

She won't eat you."

But he could not resist their entreaties, nor
his own inclinations.

In his heart he was by no means ill-inclined
to play the host on the occasion  he at home,
and the Waterfields as guests, in the King's
Common great, reception saloon.

He had never, he knew, advanced to anything
like intimacy with the Waterfields ; it
had nettled him more than once in former
days to find they had been entertaining when
he had received no invitation ; and he and
Eosamund had had their confidences on the
subject  both of one mind  both triumphing
that fate had spited all endeavours to separate
them from each other.

Well, well, I'll come with you," he now
gave in, with a good grace. " I'll come along

and keep the good folks in order. I wonder
how many of them there be ? A whole bevy,
I'll warrant 'em. Waterfields  unlimited
order  eh, Em? eh, Etta?" and happy in
his jest, he was reasonably disappointed at
finding only the eldest daughter had accompanied
her mother on the occasion.

If Eosamund had supposed that nothing
could exceed the disadvantage at which her
future sisters-in-law had been seen the day
before, she was mistaken. True, they were
not now arrayed in gaudy " bests," fresh from
a suburban dressmaker, nor were they overheated
and disordered by mid-day feasting ;
but they were louder, bolder, more aggressive,
apologetic, and consequential than they had
had any opportunity of being in Lady Julia's
drawing-room.

Frederick had bidden them pluck up spirit,
and be afraid of nobody ; and, by way of further
re-assurance, he had entered the room first
and flourished a welcome.

How are you, Mrs Wakefield ? Glad to

see you again. It is ages since we met.
What a lot has happened since then, has it
not ? Where will you sit ? Away from the
fire ? Bless me, what a shocking bad fire !
The girls have nearly let it out. It's what
they are always doing at home. Emily, this
is Mrs Wakefield. Mrs Wakefield, Miss Gilbert.
Henrietta, Mrs Wakefield. I say, Etta,
what a mess you have left this room in ! Mrs
Wakefield will tell tales of you to Rosamond.
You heard about poor Eosamund ? " turning
to her; "oh yes, by the way, some of you
were there at the time."

It was now " Poor Eosamund ! " all at once,
and from all three.

I never thought to hear that poor child's
name so taken in vain ! " cried Mrs Wakefield
afterwards. " Eeally, I had hardly the patience
to sit still and listen to ' Eosamund ! Eosamund
! Eosamund ! ' There was no stopping
it, no turning it aside. And when I think
of Lady Caroline, the proudest woman in the
county ," and she broke off with almost

a groan ; she had not loved Lady Caroline,
but she had never wished her anything so bad
as this.

I am going to ride over to the Abbey presently,"
quoth Gilbert, after a time. " I came
here first, knowing the girls would have the
latest news, if I did not find Rosamund herself
returned ; so when I found they had not
set a foot outside to-day, I just stopped to
take them out for a bit. It is dull for them,"
he added, kindly.

It is a great pity," murmured Mrs Water-field,
longing to add, " they had better go
home."

"Yes it is, an awful pity," assented he;
spoils everything. My sisters had come on
purpose to cheer her up, for I was sure she
was out of sorts, and she had been uncommonly
pleased with the idea; and I thought
we should soon have seen her quite perked
up. She was as bright as a humming-bird
the night you arrived ; wasn't she, girls \ "

"Oh dear, yes, in such spirits!" replied

Emily; "but still we thought, Etta and I
fancied, that she was perhaps, if anything, in
too great spirits  you know what I mean,
Frederick ; she was up one moment and
down the next. And yesterday morning,
she hardly spoke a word. Lady Julia asked
if she were tired, directly we arrived there,
and Rosamund owned she was; and "

I only know that I never saw her merrier
than she was the evening before," said Gilbert,
not above half satisfied with this ; " but, of
course, that bears out what I say," his brow
clearing. " She has been overdone  the whole
thing has been more than she can stand ; she
ought to get away from this place. And I
hope we shall manage that before very long,"
with a significant smile. " Under the circumstances,
I think we need not stand too much
on the proprieties, eh, Mrs Wakefield ? "

She bowed a cold assent.

Meantime the point is, how long is this
illness to last ? " proceeded he. " Makin is a
dull ass, to my mind, and is making by far

too much of it. I shall see what Rosamund
says of herself. The poor girl should surely
have a voice in the matter ; and she is not the
one to "

The door opened as he spoke, and, to the
surprise of all, Lord Portland walked quietly
in  as though merely entering from another
room.

Ha ! it's you ? " cried Gilbert, starting up
and intercepting his hand ere he could reach
any one else. " Well, what news ? How is
she ? Better ? Here is Mrs Wakefield come
to inquire ; and we were talking about her at
this moment. Is she up ? Will she see me,
if I go over by-and-by ? "

This was what Portland had been sent to
prevent.

Not to-day," he replied, as soon as he had
made his greetings. " Lady Julia bade me
say, in case I should find you here, that she
feared no visitors could be admitted to-day.
Rosamund was going to sleep, and was not
to be disturbed."

But I need not go yet ; I can wait a bit."

"Medical orders, you know, Gilbert," said
Portland, who had learned his lesson.

"Oh, medical orders be hanged!" rejoined
Gilbert, evidently disconcerted. " I say "

I am so sorry," murmured Mrs Wakefield,
her Very soft voice seeming to rebuke his strident
tones. " I am so grieved that such care
should be needed."

Lord Portland was silent.

Is there anything we can do for her ? "
inquired the practical Miss Gilbert. "Does
she want us to send her over anything % "

Would she like books, or work % " chimed
in Henrietta.

I was not told to ask for anything 
thanks," said the messenger, gravely. " I
believe Eosamund's maid brought over all
necessaries last night."

Please give her our love, and say how
very, very sorry we are," quoth Em.

And tell her that Catharine is such a good
hostess," added Etta.

And that Mr Liscard would have the Irish
song again last night."

And that the bullfinch took his sugar from
my hand this morning."

There was no chance for Rosamond's old
friends to get in a word or express a sentiment,
all the interest and anxiety being thus already
appropriated.

I fear the messages will have to wait,"
responded Portland, somewhat drily ; " I shall
not see the invalid."

No, I thought not. So / shall not trouble
you, Lord Portland," and Mrs Wakefield rose
to depart. She felt as if she should defile herself
by entering into the lists with such competitors
; and as Gilbert had withdrawn from
her side, and with his sisters was now bestowing
his whole attention on the Abbey delegate,
nothing remained for her, if she would support
her own dignity, but to go, and to go forthwith.


And a jolly good riddance," cried the
major, on his return from seeing her to her

VOL. III. D

carriage ; " she was no sweeter than usual today,
that worthy lady. Now Portland, as I
am not to go to the Abbey, you have got to
stop on here. We can't leave Mr Liscard
again at the mercy of these girls as he was last
night. You should hear what an account they
have to give of him. By Jove ! it will make
you stare. They badgered the poor old fellow
so, that he was obliged to be festive in self-defence.
They would not let him alone. You and
I must really be here to protect him to-night."
I  well  oh yes, I can stop," said Hart-land,
after a moment's consideration. " I'll

just walk back and let Lady Julia know "

Walk back ! Walk a couple of miles "

 " Only a mile by the short cut."

A mile's a mile when there is no reason
for it. I can walk as far as anybody, but, by
George ! why should you do it when there's
no object ? Surely there are grooms and
stable-boys enough about the place? We'll
soon see if one of them can't go," and he rang
the bell loudly.

Lord Portland bit his lip.

He had never been quite played the host to
in that room by Gilbert before.

He had seen him at home and at his ease
there ; but in the presence of his betrothed
some sort of appeal to her had usually been
necessary. Rosamund's absence had taught
her cousin this new experience. He could not
like it. He could not but be glad she had not
seen it.



 HAINOK

GOOD FUN AT KINGS COMMON.

Then Reason grew jealous of Folly's gay cap,
Had he that on, be sure Beauty's heart he'd entrap.
< There it is,'
Quoth Folly, ' old quiz ! '
(Folly was always good-natured, 'tis said.)
Under the sun
There's no such fun
As Reason with my cap and bells on his head.' "

Moore.

The order once given, however, Hartlancl was
disposed to take rather kindly than otherwise
to the prospect before him.

His own company had become grievous to
him by this time, and that of Lady Julia
afforded but slight variation. He was dull
and sad. The great interest of his life at this
juncture lay between the two houses of the
Abbey and King's Common, and of this interest

be could not speak, and would fain not
think, so that distraction almost of any nature
was welcome.

The Gilberts might not be to his taste, but
he had been about the world enough to take
people as he found them, and pass a pleasant
evening in almost any company. The rosy,
good-humoured damsels who appalled Mrs
Butterfield, and for whom indeed none of the
women of his set could find a good word,
appeared by no means so bad to him, and their
open, unsuspicious chatter was a positive relief
to his overcharged spirit. With them there
need be no anxiety, no doubts, no effort. Of
late in his cousin's presence there had grown
to be one continuous strain of expectation and
apprehension  while out of it, all had been
the feverish, fretting impatience of a moth to
return to its candle. To be by, to watch, to
burn with indignation, and to be daily and
hourly more convinced of the truth of his
conclusions,  that had been the consuming interest
of the past few weeks; and debarred

from it as he now was all at once, with Rosamund
unapproachable, and nothing more to
be seen or learned, divined or discovered 
with the whole affair, in short, at a dead lock
he experienced a sudden desire to throw off
his burden, and breathe another atmosphere.

Come, we'll have a jolly evening ! " cried
Gilbert, perceiving something of this. " We'll
have a good time. What do you say to billiards
before dinner ? The girls will come and look
on. It is by far the best time of day for
billiards to my mind, especially on these dark
days when one has to come indoors so soon.
And here's tea, so we shall just have a nice,
comfortable couple of hours afterwards."

"You must not forget to speak to Miss
Penrose, brother," Emily reminded him. " This
is the best time  indeed the only time to catch
her free, I think Catharine said."

"Eh? What? Miss Penrose?" said he.
Oh, ay. I remember about Catharine. Oh
yes, I'll look in on our way to the billiard-room."


"It is so very awkward for my sister and
me being here all alone, you see, Lord Hart-land,"
explained Miss Gilbert, turning to him
for further sympathy. " Being here without
any other lady, is really very awkward. So
Frederick is going to apply to the governess
to have Catharine begin her holidays sooner
than the others, in order that we may have
her. Although Catharine is made such a
school-girl of, she is really quite old enough to
go about now, and so Etta and I have been
telling her."

(" You have, have you ? " thought Portland.
Rosamund won't thank you for that")

Oh, Catharine is quite companionable,"
subjoined Etta, u If we had Catharine, we
should not mind at all how long Rosamund
stayed away,"  here she caught a scowl from
Emily,  "I mean, of course  of course for
our own sakes ; of course we are dreadfully
sorry for her "

Etta always makes a muddle whenever she
begins to talk, Lord Portland ; she only means

that we should not mind for the awkward
part of it. Of course we miss dear Rosamond
dreadfully," apologised the elder sister.

He bowed.

When do you think she will be able to
return ? To-morrow, or next day % Candidly,
you know."

Certainly not to - morrow, nor the next
day."

"By the end of the week ?"

I hardly think that either."

"Eh! what? Not by the end of the
week?" put in Gilbert, with his cup halfway
to his lips. " Lord ! you don't mean
that Makin says that ? Why, bless my soul !
how very  what an awful pity ! How beastly
unfortunate ! Well "  after a long drink and
a careful wiping of his heavy moustache 
"well, we must put up with it, I suppose,
and do our best to get along without her.

But " and he set down his cup on the

tray ruefully.

"There is one thing," said Lord Portland,

with considerable hesitation, " that Lady Julia
wished me to speak about. She was sure
that you would agree with her as to the
advisability of saying as little about this as
possible. We do not want every one to be

talking and gossiping about Rosamond "

To be sure not. Keep it dark, certainly,

or we shall have the poor girl bothered
to death," assented her betrothed, readily.

And, perhaps  perhaps for that reason 
my aunt thought "  stammered Portland, disliking
his commission intensely  " she thought
it might be as well for you not to be seen coming
over to the Abbey every day. You see,"
he added, as the faces of all betrayed surprise,
it might get wind, and give rise to suspicion
that the illness was more serious than it is."

But I don't understand. I may go surely,
if the girls don't," said Gilbert. " Considering
how we stand to each other, and everybody
knows about it by this time, I  upon my word
I can't see why my going should bear that
interpretation."

You would not go if she had a mere cold,
or headache ? "

Well, I don't know," replied Gilbert, laughing,
while his bronzed face coloured with a
lover's shame-sacredness, which became him
well,  "I am afraid I  I should be very
much inclined to."

Lord Portland rose and walked to the
window. It was hard on him to have this
just then  just when he wanted to find in
Eosamund's betrothed only the jolly, rollicking,
underbred good fellow, and to forget all
that it was inconvenient to remember of anything
else. When apart from the lovers, and
more especially when in Lady Julia's company,
he could almost persuade himself that a man of
Gilbert's temperament, with no refined feelings
nor acute perceptions, could not in the nature
of things appreciate his cousin, and it need not
therefore be feared that more than his importance
and his self-complacency would suffer,
were she to give him up.

In the depths of his own heart, to be sure,

confidence would occasionally falter ; but he
liked to hear his aunt say as much, and could,
at times, almost work upon himself to agree
with her. Then would come some little word,
or acknowledgment such as the above, to undo
all, and cause a moment or two of acute
agony. He would not show his face during
such a moment.

Since the fates are adverse, I suppose I
must give in however'' quoth Gilbert, presently.
" There's no fighting against fate;
and of course I would not be such a selfish
brute as to do anything to worry Eosamund.
I daresay she is best let alone  only I thought
that perhaps she  she won't fancy I am
neglecting her, will she ? "

Certainly not. I will take care of that,"
replied her cousin, steadying his voice as best
he could, with all Lady Julia's assurances and
asseverations ringing in his ears. "And I
really think, Gilbert  I really think that
she is better left undisturbed, and that it is
her own wish to be so. Invalids, you know,

have their fancies," still painfully evasive of
Gilbert's eye, " and Rosamond is undoubtedly
far from well. The doctor told me so himself.
He said these nervous attacks were not to be
trifled with."

To be sure they are not. I have no doubt
the doctor knows best, and will bring her
round all right presently," replied the disconsolate
lover, endeavouring to recover himself.
" I am thankful to say I don't know
what nerves are. There are no such things as
nerves in our family, are there, girls ? "

No, indeed," laughed they.

I wonder what our old mother would say
to a girl of eighteen having nervous attacks,"
proceeded their brother. " I say, you two, we
must keep it dark from her about this, mind."

I had thought of that already, brother,"
replied Emily, " and though I wrote home this
morning, I said nothing about it. Mother
wouldn't understand ; except that, of course
Lady Caroline's death "

To be sure, yes ; we must make the most

of Lady Caroline's death," assented he, cheerfully.
" Now, if every one's done, we'll go to
the billiard-room. Come, girls,  I say, you
two, it's like old times to have you hanging
about one again," and he tucked an arm
through that of each sister, and led the way.

He played well, as he did most things. His
swift, clean cannons, straight hazards, and the
manner in which he left his balls disposed for
the succeeding stroke, speedily showed him a
much greater proficient than his opponent, who
scored his highest breaks of ten and twelve
with satisfaction, and accepted the "flukes,"
which would have discomposed Gilbert, with
an alacrity that was positively discreditable.

The sisters  albeit openly on Frederick's side,
as in duty bound  consoled and encouraged,
and at length found their sympathies so
strongly enlisted for the one so far behind,
that Etta was caught marking stealthily to
Portland a handsome score of her brother's.

Merriment and raillery were the immediate
consequence.

(say, ay!" thought Gilbert, " ay, ay! is
that what you are up to, miss ? Lord, what
a joke that would be ! Portland and Etta !
Lord, what would the pater say to that ! The
old gentleman would not know himself. But I
said how it would be, before ever I brought the
girls here. There's Portland for the one, and
Jack Stoneby for the other")

Before the evening was over, he was shouting
with laughter over a new idea.

(" Old Liscard taken with Emily ! Lord !
Lord ! I shall never get over it ! If it
really is so, it would be the richest thing I
ever knew in my life. And I'll lay any money
it is so. I never saw him anything like it
before,  nor, I'll wager, has any one else. He
was making up to her the whole of dinner ;
talking away like a perfect parrot; and he
would not stop ten minutes in the dining-room
after they left  Kant and Cicero could not
have held him there with cart-ropes,  and to
see him, over the piano, beating time and
wagging his old head,  and they say he is to

show them all over his library tomorrow morning,
and take them a drive in the afternoon !
Oh, my dear Eosamund, what nuts this will befor
you I I should say she'd be as glad as I, if
anything really does come out of it. Well,
he's not such an old boy neither ; and he had
a sorry time of it with that vixen of a Lady
Caroline ; he is quite right to chirp up a bit,
and have a little pleasure in life yet. Em's the
very girl to suit him. To be sure, there are the
children ; but they are young, and I should
say the girls would soon go off. Catharine is
not a patch upon Eosamund, but she's well
enough. Dolly will be good-looking. Anyway,
that's their concern, and I know one
thing, I should be uncommonly well pleased.
I should die of laughing. It would be the
rummest idea. Now, I wonder," more seriously,
"I do wonder whether any notion of
the kind has struck Portland. Portland is
such a moony chap that I should not be one
bit surprised if he had seen nothing ; if it had
all passed off like water off a duck's back")

Portland had, however, seen enough, and
more than enough. On his part he had never
felt less inclined to laugh in his life.

Here was a fresh complication, with a vengeance.


It was not quite the agreeable jest to him
that it was to the lady's brother, that his
scholarly and refined relative, hitherto the
personification of pedantry and respectability,
as to whom there had formerly been but one
feeling, that of consideration and goodwill, 
it could not be to him quite what it was to
Gilbert, to see the elderly widower blossom
out into a new character.

Now, it was perfectly true that not only
had Mr Liscard conversed incessantly with
Emily Gilbert during dinner, but that the
most laborious and long-winded instructions,
the prosing which even Gilbert when on his
promotion had surreptitiously yawned beneath,
had been, to all appearance, hearkened
to with the profoundest sympathy and interest
by Gilbert's sister. The host had been intelligently

questioned at due intervals. He had
been drawn out, and led on, as it had scarcely
ever been his fortune to be encouraged hitherto.
Beneath such treatment he had expanded and
thriven, as no one could have helped doing.

In the evening he had joined the ladies far
sooner than he had ever before been known to
quit the comforts of the well-warmed room
and glowing wine-cups. He had made some
excuse for doing so certainly, but the excuse
had been a slight one, and it had been obvious
to all present that the attraction of
good company had been the sole and flattering
cause of the change. He had invited
Catharine to join the proposed drive next
day. Catharine had been quite in luck, and
had seen that it was her interest to be compliant
and agreeable ; and, in consequence,
there had been no more seriousness nor disapprobation
from her,  Catharine, as we
know, being one ever to fall in with the
times, whereas Eosamund would fight to the
death for a principle or a prejudice.

VOL. III. e

But the sight to see had been Rosamund's
papa over the music. On Gilbert's proposing
music, he had seconded the move, not with
his usual gentle, passive acquiescence, but ina
manner unseen before  he had himself
stepped across the room with candles, and
fumbled with the slides of the piano.

In former times when Lady Caroline, who
had supposed herself a musician, had requested
to be favoured by some guest, the
inevitable response, and that which had been
known to suit the petitioner, had been some
dreary fugue, or grim, uncompromising sonata.
Now the old piano scarcely knew itself.
Until the two Miss Gilberts came, it had
not been opened since the death in the
house ; but on that first evening after their
arrival, in Rosamund's softened mood, she
had been glad to consent to anything, and
Catharine had known what to expect on the
following night. True, the instrument was
somewhat out of tune, for the tuner had been
ordered away on the occasion of his last visit ;

but this did not greatly afflict the general
ear of the company assembled. Gilbert's
voice was equal to drowning any accompaniment,
and Emily was almost equally independent.


They had sung together and apart, urging
each other on, and inciting to further effort ;
and at the end of every performance, Mr Lis-card
had applauded and admired. It had even
been drawn from him that once upon a time,
before he had become a married man, and when
he had had nothing else to think of, he had
himself dabbled with the flute ; and further
inquiries had elicited the fact that the said
flute was still in existence. Yes, it was certainly
somewhere  he could not positively
say where  and it was many a year since it
had seen the light. But still  and when Hart-land
had heard him hesitatingly promise to
look about among his old drawers on the following
day, and see if it could be found, and
if anything could be done with it  he had felt
that although he had himself heard Lady

Julia remark on the pity it was that the
musical proclivities of her brother-in-law had
never been looked kindly upon heretofore, she
would hardly have cared to have heard them
acknowledged on the present occasion.

He was certainly taking more notice of
these Gilbert girls than was at all necessary,
and more, his doing so was making it momentarily
more improbable that they would
fall in with the wishes and hopes which were
entertained at the Abbey, for their speedy
vanishing from the scene. Was it likely they
would want to go, when all was being made
so pleasant for them to stay ? Mr Liscard
himself, from whom no hospitality had ever
before been expected, and who was generally
supposed not to know who was in the house,
and who out of it  here had he been foremost
in the task of entertaining! With his evident
approval, Catharine had been emancipated,
for the purpose of rendering the young
ladies easy in their minds; and there had
been rumours of excursions here and there,

and driving parties and what not, which had
made the whole air festive. There had Dot
been a syllable throughout, to intimate any
idea of cutting short the visit.

No, ma'am, I can't say there was," he
was forced to allow, in answer to the next
morning's cross-questioning, for Lady Julia
had retired, as he had meant her to do, ere
he had returned home the night before. " I
expect the Miss Gilberts will make out their
time. You can hardly expect them to change
their plans all in a moment, and they seem very
happy, and quite at home where they are."

They are sure to be ' at home ' wherever
they are," replied his aunt. " I daresay, indeed
I quite believe, they may be very
respectable well-inclined young women in
their own sphere of life ; but here they are
placed in a completely false position. If they
could only be brought to see this  if there
were any one to put it before them "

You should ask your brother-in-law to do
so," said Portland, drily.

Theodore ! Dear me, Portland, what are
you thinking oH Poor Theodore never was
of the slightest use to any one even in Caroline's
days, and now  by the way, does he
appear in the evenings ? Was he there after
dinner last night ? "

Very much there'

And how did it pass ? What did you do ?
How did they behave ? "

Oh, it passed very well ; everybody was
very lively ; and Catharine sat at the head
of the table. "

Catharine! That child!"

You would not have had a Miss Gilbert
do so ? "

No, no ; you are right. Catharine was
better than no one ; and she was at least a
daughter of the house, though a mere schoolgirl.
But it was a fine chance for Catharine,
with my poor Rosamond lying here "

Tell Rosamond ; it will make her

laugh'

She laughs at nothing now," said Lady

Julia, very gravely. Ci Oh, Portland, I am
really disappointed ; I had so hoped you
would bring me some good news for her.
I know what she needs more than anything,
is to hear that these visitors have departed.
It had seemed to me  and I told her so, poor
darling  that they must go, that there was
no other course open ; and though when I
assured Eosamund of this, she made no reply,
I know it comforted her. And now  oh
dear ! " and she sighed sorrowfully, " I had
even hoped they might have fixed to start
tomorrow."

"To-morrow they are all going for a drive
to Wingleford Ruins."

All? Who do you mean by ' all my
dear ? "

"Mr Liscard, and Catharine, and the two
Miss Gilberts."

Theodore ! " exclaimed Lady Julia, in fresh
surprise.

Yes, indeed," and he looked at her curiously.


But she had not seen Theodore over the
piano and the Irish songs, nor heard the
pretty speeches which had evoked the still
prettier responses.

She was in consequence only impressed
by the superfluity of the compassion which
had induced the scholar to leave his books,
and trot the insignificant Gilberts about the
country ; he had always, she knew, favoured
the match, and doubtless having done so
from the first, he now felt bound to back
his approval ; and being thrown entirely on
his own resources, had outdone all that was
necessary. Catharine too, eager for the frolic,
had probably egged him on. Between them
they were doing her darling all the mischief
they could, and she could have cried to think
how powerless she was to prevent it.

"You say Mrs Wakefield and Eleanour
were there when you went," she began
again, presently. "What do you suppose
Mrs Wakefield thought of Rosamond's future
sisters \ "

She hardly stayed a minute after I
arrived."

Had she called on them, or had she merely
gone to inquire after Rosamond ? "

That I cannot tell. But she certainly did
inquire very affectionately after Rosamund."

"And she expected to find her at King's
Common \ n

Can't tell that either, Aunt Julia. She
did not say so."

Did you say plainly that Rosamund would
remain here for the present ? "

"I did."

And what did they all say to that \ "

I think Major Gilbert was very much
disappointed."

I did not mean him  I meant the rest of
them."

I cannot remember that they said anything
in particular."

"You might at least tell me something,
Portland."

It really seemed cruel that after being a

whole evening away from her, and in the
midst of the objectionable and all-absorbing
circle, he should produce nothing wherewith
to compensate for his absence ; and finding it
so himself, he could only suggest that if he
were to repeat the amusement he would try todo
better.

Go there again ! This evening ? " cried
she, the same fancy which had occurred to
Gilbert glaring in all its horrors full at her.
"Oh, my dear Portland, surely you are not
being drawn on to  to care for the company
of those people % Surely you went last night
for Eosamund's sake  to keep up appearances
 to act civilly,  not  not because you
enjoyed yourself?" There was something
almost ludicrous in the tremor of her tone.

My dear aunt " then he stopped short,

as he understood what she meant. He was
not in a mood to play with her ; he could not
even be amused by her tortures.

Set your mind at rest," he said. " Those
poor girls have no more thought of me than

I of them. And, on my part, I can assure
you that I should never fall in love with
either, if there were not another woman in
the world."

In a moment all Lady Julia's benevolence
returned. " Poor things ! I am certainly
very unjust to them ; I am sure I am quite
ashamed. It is not their fault that they do
not belong to our grade in society, that they
are inferior in their manners and appearance ;
and they are really very good-looking, and
Emily is almost ladylike. I am so put out
about Rosamund that you must see, Hart-land,
I hardly know what I am talking
about. Pray, my dear Portland, do whatever
you think right about going. Go tonight,
if you think it best. If it is at all
necessary "

Oh, not necessary."

But do  pray do ; for my sake do,

and it will show there is no ill-feeling. I
can positively assure you, now that I think
of it, that I should prefer your spending your

evening elsewhere, because then I shall feel
free to spend mine in Rosamond's room.
Now that you have quite set my fears at

rest " and it ended in his agreeing to go,

if only to pacify her.

But he told himself afterwards that it was
as well he had done so. Upon this second
evening, things were even more amazing than
before, and he had nothing to do but to stare
and stand by.

It appeared that the expedition had been
a great success ; that a couple of hours had
been spent in exploring and meandering ; that
Mr Liscard had been the most wonderful authority
and guide ; that the drive had been
undertaken in the morning, because the sky
had looked threatening ; and that after the
return of the party, the rest of the afternoon
had been spent in the seclusion of the
library ;  tea also  wonder of wonders ! 
having been served in that venerable spot.
Catharine, who now seemed to be part and
parcel of the whole affair, gleefully informed

her cousin of the fun, or at least of so much
of it as had taken place up to date, and he
himself was a witness of the remainder. Again
he beheld his host all cheerfulness and animation,
and marked that his own especial chair,
to which he had in old days been wont to
retreat as a matter of course, again remained
empty throughout the evening. On this occasion,
furthermore, there were continual allusions
to little epochs of the day, references
to this and that occurrence, sallies, whose
points were for the initiated only. Gilbert
was not present, nor was any one but himself,
 but he found that the Stonebys had
been invited for the next evening; and he
heard  yes, he was certain he heard  Miss
Gilbert besought to remember that she was
not to yield up her place to Clementina
Stoneby,  that whoever was present, her
chair was at her host's right hand.

By Jove ! ma'am, I have some news for
you at last "  he went home in the end,
boiling over with indignation and imprudence

 "news that will satisfy any extent
of craving, I should say. Look here, Aunt
Julia, what do you say to this ? If Rosamond
does not look sharp and get well soon,
she will find herself, on her return, provided
with an embryo  stepmother."

CHAPTER XXX.

HAD Rosamond BEEN THERE !

1 If a daughter you have, she's the plague of your life ;
No peace shall you have, though you've buried your "wife !
At twenty she mocks at the duty you've taught her.
Sighing and-whining,
Dying and pining,
Oh, what a plague is an obstinate daughter ! "

The Duenna.

If Rosamund does not get well sharp, she
will find herself, on her return home, provided
with an ernbiyo stepmother ! "

Such a prediction was enough to chill anyone's
blood, and to attempt to depict Lady
Julia's feelings on hearing it were useless.

This was now the third shock which Fate
had thrust into her hitherto easy life within a
few brief months. Her sister's death had cost
her many tears and tender recollections ; 's

engagement had been a bitter and
daily renewed disappointment of her fondest
hopes ; but neither event had roused half such
a passion of amazement and horror as that
which now shook her soul to its very depths.

Of all people in the world, Theodore !

Her reliable, respectable brother-in-law, who,
although he might count for nothing in the
family, was presumed to fulfil all requirements
in the eyes of the world, and to be as phlegmatic,
and obtuse, and safe, as a man and a
husband and a father could possibly be ! That
he should be the next rock ahead !

It had been such an understood thing that
he would not be put out of his way by Rosamund's
guests, since none but Lady Caroline
had ever been suffered to interfere with any
single one of his habits of gentle selfishness 
(and even her imperious ladyship had, as a rule,
respected the motto, " Live, and let live," with
a spouse who gave her so wide a berth and so
little trouble)  it had, we say, been so well
understood that the Miss Gilberts would be

nothing to their host, that he had not been
taken into account at all.

It had been felt that only by their presence
at meals would he know the girls were still
in the house, and certainly no one had ever
dreamed that he would so much as inquire in
what manner they had passed the intervals.

When a man's line of conduct is thus taken
for granted, he is in a great measure hedged
in by it ; and had Eosamund, with her flashing
eye and apt speech, sat in her mother's
seat, it may be confidently asserted that there
would have been enough of the deceased Lady
Caroline haunting the air to have turned aside
the winged arrows with which it was now
bristling. But no one had been by, and the
affair had grown like magic.

On the first evening the widower had
experienced a passive sensation of being
pleased and amused ; on the second he had
exerted himself ; and on the third and fourth
no exertion had been needed.

It was known to none, scarce even to him-vol.

III. F

self, how and why he had crept year by year
into an ever smaller niche in life, and had
shrunk and shrunk in order to avoid contact
and friction ; so that now his dead wife had
only herself to thank if, in the elasticity of
spirits consequent on the removal of a grievous
pressure, he did not even outwardly affect
to mourn her as he should have done ; and if
at the first pleasant thing which offered, the
smile of a pretty face and the accosting of a
merry voice, the dry, withered, unused nature,
which had still a germ of life within, should
feel the beatings of a new and delicious sensation.
Portland might be disgusted, and Lady
Julia outraged, but had they known mankind
better, they needed not to have been so stricken
with amazement as now they were.

How odd, how unlike himself, Mr Liscard
is to-night ! "

Clementina Stoneby was the next person to
note something that she had never seen before,
on passing the following evening at King's
Common, in company with her brother. It

may be remembered that Lord Portland had
heard they had been bidden there. " I cannot
understand Mr Liscard at all," pondered she
in perplexity, as she stood by the drawing-room
mantelpiece after dinner. " I always
thought he pretended to read, and really went
to sleep, in the evenings. He does not seem
at all inclined to sleep to-night. He is quite
the host. A flower in his button-hole, too !
All the times I have dined in this house, I
don't think I have ever seen him with a flower
in his button-hole before." She was looking
at the object of her reflections as she made
them. He was briskly stepping across the
room, calling " Music ! music ! " as he went,
while Catharine was bustling about the piano,
attentive and dutiful, and cognisant of what
was going forward, and a servant was placing
a music-stand where no music-stand had ever
been placed before, and arranging lights near.

In front of this stand the astonished Stoneby
s now beheld their host take up his position,
while his daughter and the Miss Gilberts with

animation surrounded and encouraged him.
What was going to happen next ?

Clementina could scarcely credit her own
vision when she perceived the outcome of all
the preparation  namely, the dignified, abstracted
scholar of former clays screwing together
and putting to his lips a silvery flute,
from whence presently emanated somewhat
tremulously a sweet, old-fashioned, almost-forgotten
melody.

He had, it appeared, already delighted the
young ladies ; they had had a concert after tea,
and he had been promised an accompaniment
on the next occasion. He now claimed fulfilment
of the promise, and Emily Gilbert sat
down to the piano.

I really think they get on wonderfully
well together," said Henrietta, quitting the
group and rejoining the Stonebys after the
first duet, " and they will do still better after
a little practice."

Oh yes, we must practise, we must practise,"
came at the same moment from the performers

themselves; and "You must practise
that run, if you please, Miss Gilbert' and
You that shake, Mr Liscard," awoke simultaneous
flattery and merriment.

Should they try the difficult passages again ?
No, not then,  not before an audience ; they
must do it in rehearsal  by themselves  when
no one else was present to criticise and complain.
The morning was best for rehearsing,
the evening was scarcely the time. It would
now be preferable to proceed to something
else, and agree to meet and overcome all
difficulties at a more convenient season.

I shall be quite out in the cold once this
sort of thing begins," cried Etta. " I know
what I have to expect when two music-mad
people get together; it is all up with the
third person. I reckon these two are going
to give me a pretty time of it, what with rehearsals
and all the rest. Do, Miss Stoneby,
have compassion on poor me, and come up
and keep me company when they are at their
practising tomorrow morning."

I am afraid I shall be busy tomorrow,"
quoth little Clemmy, very coldly.

Oh, never mind, I daresay Lord Portland
will be over."

Miss Stoneby was mute.

Perhaps he will look after Catharine and
me, when he finds us left in the lurch," continued
Etta ; "he has been here both yesterday
and the day before, and stopped dinner
both times. We half expected him to-night "
(it had been more than " half," and she had
donned her smartest frock in consequence) 
but I suppose he did not like to leave poor
Lady Julia," continued she. "Poor Lady
Julia ; it certainly would have been too bad to
desert her three times running, and if I were she,
I know I should have been in a huff as it is."

It is no new thing," observed Clementina,

briefly. " Lord Portland is always here. He

looks upon King's Common as a second home."

Does he % But why ? They are not near

relations."

As near as any he has."

La ! how strange that must be, Miss
Stoneby. We have such heaps and heaps."

Have you indeed ? "

Thirty-six first cousins on father's side,
and twenty two on mother's. We do make a
to-do when a lot of us get together."

I daresay."

I never was in any house full of children
where they made so little noise as they do
here," proceeded Etta, confidentially. " To
think that there are nine still in the house,
even with Rosamund and the two big boys
away ? If Lord Portland comes here to be

cheerful " and she laughed expressively.

She and Emily had had their own opinion on
the matter, and had agreed upon it perfectly.
They did not think Lord Portland came over
to be cheered by the children, nor yet because
the place was his " second home."

"You do not see King's Common to advantage
now ! said Clementina, who reflected that
at any rate she did not. "It is not always so
melancholy as this."

"Is it cot? La!" cried Etta. "Mr Lis-card
told a different story yesterday. He
said to Em that the old place was not like
itself with us two about, and I don't know all
what about sunbeams and rays of light. He
has been making Em ever so many pretty
speeches. And as for her, she thinks him
quite a dear. For my part,"  and the young
lady sank her voice, and languished behind
her fan,  " for my part, I prefer Lord Hart-land.
I own I do like young men better than
old  don't you \ "

(" Good gracious, what next ? " cried Clementina
to herself.)

I have no doubt we should have seen
Lord Portland here to - night, only that I
scolded him so for leaving Lady Julia twice
before," proceeded the speaker, inviting an
attack in vain. " I told him that really "

Really I think it must be our

time to go," cried Clemmy, starting up ;
and she actually did manage to effect an
exit, and carry Jack off with her, a full

hour before they would otherwise have
gone.

I could stand it no longer. I really could
not have contained myself another minute,"
fumed the little steam-engine, panting away
homewards. " That impudent, impudent girl !
Oh, you should have heard her insinuations and
her affectations ! It is by way of being herself
and Lord Portland, and her sister and Mr Lis-card.
But, oh, Jack, the worst, by far the worst,
is that I fear there really is  is some truth,
some horrible, degrading truth in the last idea.
In the first I do not believe, but in the second
oh dear, oh dear  I shall never forget this
evening. Oh, Jack, did you see  did you
hear  but I know you did ; I could tell by
your face that you both heard and saw."

Go on. Tell what you saw."

It dawned upon me towards the end of
dinner. I began to think that Mr Liscard
was wonderfully sociable and wonderfully
cheerful ; usually he is neither, you know  at
any rate, until the dessert is on the table. He

looks neither to right nor to left while he
eats. And I felt that he might have remembered
to be a little more particular not to
have laughed quite so much, and been so very
full of anecdotes and jests, before the servants,
because servants do talk, and of course
Lady Caroline has not been three months dead
yet ; but it was not till there was all that
drinking of healths and clinking of glasses at
the end, that I began to feel how very disagreeable
it was becoming. That was why
we were asked, I suppose % To take off Henrietta
and Catharine, and leave those two to
each other. Horrid old man ! I feel as if I
could never speak to him, never look at him
again."

To be sure he has been rather quick over
it," replied Jack, coolly, " but I always thought
it would come. He is not altogether the
pensive student whose part it suited Lady
Caroline to have him play. I daresay you
will open your eyes, but I have not much
faith in his being a scholar at all. I fancy he

saw it was bis only chance of being anything
and, moreover, it secured him a quiet life.
He is indolent, and selfish, and if he had not
taken up the line he did, he would have found
himself endlessly embroiled, and to very little
purpose. Lady Caroline would have had her
own way in the long-run, and he had the sense
to see it."

Sense ! " cried his sister. " He is showing
his sense now, is he not ? Tooting on a
flute, with a camellia in his button-hole, to a
girl scarcely older than his own daughter ! "

"It is hardly decent just yet, I own," assented
Jack, moderately, " but, upon my word,
I scarcely know how to blame him. Recollect,
my austere Clementina, that this is the first
temptation of the kind which has probably
ever befallen the poor gentleman "

Temptation ! " cried the little, busy, workaday,
perishing woman, who had no corner in
her heart for so much as a weakness, save in the
straight, legitimate, prosaic, matrimonial form.
Temptation ! A man between fifty and

sixty, who ought never to be thinking of
such things ! If he did mean to have a
second wife "

Pooh ! that is not the question. He is
merely basking in a bit of sunshine now."

How can you talk of it like that ? "

Jack laughed. Men do laugh at such
questions.

Well, all I know is," proceeded Clementina,
hot and angry, " that as long as Emily
Gilbert remains at King's Common, I, for one,
shall not set foot within the house again."

Jack laughed afresh.

What is it 1 What amuses you ? "

Because we are going there again tomorrow,"
said he.

He had been invited point-blank by Mr
Liscard himself, who had been very well satisfied
with the way in which his convenient
neighbours had done their part ; fulfilled the
end for which they had been invited ; kept
clear of the piano ; and maintained the chat
at the other end of the room. In the plenitude

of his good-humour he had caught the
rector and engaged him and his sister for
the next evening  they were the only people
he could so invite ; and Jack, not seeing the
affair in the light Clementina did, had accepted
with tolerable alacrity. Like Hart-land,
he required distraction at this time.

Besides, it was such fun to make Clemmy
really wroth, and wroth to the last degree
she now was, and she was clattering and
chattering along as fast as her little feet
and her little tongue could go, when they
turned in at their own gate, and beheld a
figure in the clear moonlight before them.
It was Lord Portland, who had strolled
down for a smoke and a consultation, the
rectory being, as we know, but ten minutes'
walk from his own house.

Well, what did you see, and what did
you think ? " was his greeting. " I knew
where you were to be to-night, and that you
would be home about now. Well \ "

The brother and sister glanced at each other.

Oh, it's all right ; I know all about it,"
continued Portland. "Queer idea, isn't it?
Of course it would never do. Imagine
a Miss Gilbert succeeding Lady Caroline
Verelst ! No, no ; it can't be done. We
must conspire to defeat it. If poor Rosamond

were only about " but then he

stopped, for one and all were thinking the
same thought  namely, that poor Eosamund
had enough ado to manage her own affairs,
and moreover, had not succeeded so perfectly
with them as to warrant her being intrusted
with those of others.

But since all had been equally behind the
scenes at King's Common, there was obviously
now no need for reticence ; and the driving,
and flirting, and fluting now going on in the
house over whose portico the black escutcheon
was still fresh, was discussed through all its
length and breadth.

Eosamund ought at any rate to know of
it," concluded Portland, with much decision.
And I shall certainly tell her. I shall see

her on purpose. To-morrow afternoon she
is coining into the boudoir  it is a dead
secret, but she is  and I shall see her, and
tell her."

No one had any objection to make, and
he prepared to depart.

"How is she, Portland?" said Jack, softly.

She is  just what Aunt Julia chooses to
call it, Jack."

You don't think the illness serious ?"

"No, I don't."

Is Gilbert admitted to see her yet V

"No."

"But you are?"

I am nothing of the kind  but I mean to
admit myself. After what we have agreed
to-night, I consider it is my duty to see
Rosamund and put her on her guard. My
aunt is not to be trusted ; and with Rosamund's
temper "

I don't know what you all mean by speaking
of Rosamund's temper," suddenly blazed
forth a little, shrill voice. " Rosamund would

have as good a temper as any one, and be as
kind and good and sweet as any one, if she
were only let alone. She likes having her
own way  oh, I know why you look so ;
you think she has got it, and no good has
come of it. There is something wrong about
this engagement, and you both blame Rosamund.
Now, how can you possibly know
that Eosamund is to blame % I am sure
she is unhappy  perhaps she sees she has
made a mistake  perhaps Major Gilbert, nice
as he is, does not quite, altogether satisfy her,
and  and  and  oh, I don't know anything
about it, I may be quite wrong, only I cannot
bear to hear my dear, dear Eosamund spoken
of so unkindly, and you ought not to do it,
and you shall not before me," further cried
the valiant little creature, darting away into
the porch with a suspicious tremble in her
voice, and a resolution that neither Jack
nor any one else should have a chance of
answering.

In a sort of maze, Lord Portland's eyes

followed the retreating figure. Then he
turned, and in the clear moonlight faced
his friend. "God bless her for the words'
he said. " See here, Jack,  we  I  I don't
know how you feel, but if I dared, I would
tell your sister that  God help me  Rosamund
needs no champion with me. I have
learned  too late  that I  I must not dare
to take her part ; " and he turned his head
aside.

A hand was laid on his shoulder.

' I have been a fool," continued the speaker,
brokenly. " I had my chance, and I did not
think it worth the picking up. Another, a
better, a braver, and an honest man came
by, and saw the value of the prize. He won
it, and  heaven pity him, Stoneby  he thinks
he has it, and it is all a mockery and illusion.
She does not love him ; she had almost ceased
to care for him the moment he was in her
power; she would fain have spurned him

from her feet afterwards. And now "

and a too significant silence supplied the rest.

VOL. III. G

There was a long pause, and at length
Stoneby spoke. "I understand," lie said, in
clear, deliberate tones, " and this is not altogether
new to me, though I had hoped, almost
against hope, that I might have been mistaken.
There is then but one honourable
course for your cousin to take ; she must
confess all to Gilbert, and throw him over."

And that she will not do."

Has any one tried her ? "

Do not ask me," said Portland. " Before
heaven, Stoneby, I was innocent of any other
motive than that of indignation at Gilbert's
wrongs, when I  I  yes, I did it : I urged
her to tell him the truth. I thought then,
I think now, that an open, unflinching confession
of the injustice she has done him,
would be the only means of preventing her
doing him a greater. Besides, there is another
course, and sometimes  I fear  she is
trying it."

You mean, to disgust him."

Something of the kind  yes. But this is

only the merest, vaguest conjecture. She
may never have thought of it ; and her petulance
and coldness may only be the result of
her own disappointment,  but I have thought
I have wondered at his patience under it.
Most men  I, myself  would not have endured
such treatment for a moment. I should
have seen, known that it could proceed from
but one cause."

Gilbert sees nothing ? "

He is too noble to doubt her," said Hart-land,
in a low voice.

And you say you admonished your
cousin ? "

I did, in the plainest terms. She thought
me cruel and unfeeling, and I think I played
the calm observer well. But I fear to look
into my own heart, Stoneby : I dread to find
what I know is there. Rosamond's happiness
is dearer, far dearer to me than it ought to
be, and what is the result ? When I see her
unjust and contemptuous towards the man
she has made her own, it maddens me with

a kind of pain I delight to feel. I could
reproach her, torture her, almost tear her in
pieces for her cruelty, and yet love her a
thousandfold the more because of it. I could
clasp her in my arms, and crush her, at the
same time. She cannot be Gilbert's wife.
He deserves a better fate. . . . She shall
not be sacrificed to him. She has suffered
already enough. . . . It is a sin to treat
a man as she does her lover. He has done
nothing to merit it. He . . . She . . ."
he passed his hand over his brow. " I don't
think I quite know what I am saying," he
murmured.

It does not matter with me, you know,"
said his friend, very kindly.

Oh, I am such a fool  such an utter
fool ! " groaned Portland, afresh. " Look
here now, I say ; what do you suppose I
care about my so-called uncle and his idiotic
flirtation \ It is very beastly of him, but I
don't suppose anything real or tangible will
come of it ; but here have I set my heart on

going to Rosamund with it all, and she will
break her heart anew over it, that's what she
will do  because  because  can't you see,
Jack %  because I must see her, and I must
have an excuse to see her, and to make her
see me ; and then, perhaps, who knows \ 
something  somehow  may be said  ah, don't
look at me so, I say," throwing him off with
a fling ; "I know all that you would say.
Just hold your tongue, will you % I am going
to see Rosamund, and all you can say or do
shall not prevent me."

I am not seeking to prevent you, dear
Portland."

"You  you  oh, I know well enough what
you are saying to yourself. It is what I
should say to myself also, if I were not a
scoundrel and a hypocrite. I have been
shamming, Jack  I tell you, shamming : I
have been imposing upon you all  and upon
myself, more than any, heaven forgive me !
Oh, I have been so impartial and superior,
and have looked down from such heights

upon the poor foolish pair entangled in their
own net, and have discussed the situation so

paternally, while all the time ! You

would not have thought it of me, would you,
Stoneby 1 I think even a few days ago, when
we were all at that merry luncheon-party, and
Eosamund was so playful, and every one so pleasant
 I think even then none of you guessed
what I was feeling. I did it well, on the
whole. Aunt Julia thought me harsh towards
her spoilt darling, and almost melted my obdurate
heart by her representations. I was
to be kind to poor Eosamund, forsooth ! I
was not to think so hardly of her Eosamund,
her own dear Eosamund ! Little she guessed
that every tender epithet she used, and every
plea she put forward, gave me a new delight.
They were brands thrown upon a fire that was
already burning. I have deceived you all 
yes, you too, Stoneby, you whom. I pretended
to take into confidence, and have been as false
to you as to the rest."
This is not being false."

There are no secrets between us now, at
any rate," proceeded Portland, with a bitter
laugh; "you have got to the bottom of the
well at last, and I hope you like what you
find there. It is a fine mixture, is it not?"

Stoneby said nothing.

I suppose you are shocked ? "

There was another pause.

Portland," said Stoneby at last.

"Well?"

If I were to tell you that I feel for you
as I never did for any other man,  that I
think, I know you have manfully struggled to
overcome a terrible calamity, and that, whatever
you may accuse yourself of, no one else
will ever find you chargeable in this matter, or
feel for you anything but the purest honour
and esteem  would you believe me?"

Do you  mean that ? " said Portland,
slowly.

I do, indeed."

I thought  I thought  I seemed to myself
such a coward, almost a liar "

Why ? Because you sought to hide, even
from yourself, a feeling which you were powerless
to prevent, but which, coming as it did,
at such a time, was torture ? What was there
false or dishonourable in that? You have
never breathed a word, never sought by word
or deed, to undermine Gilbert's rightful influence
"

"Never  never. If she had been happy,
or even if she had not been happy, so that
she had played him fair, I would have stifled
the very earliest breath of another feeling."
The words shook and faltered  but not from
hesitation  on his lips.

"I am sure you would,  I know you
would."

But still it arose," said Portland ; "and,
what is more, it thrives apace. I know not
what it feeds upon. I have not seen my
cousin since that day when you were there,
how, and why do I love her already ten
times more than I did then? The night
before, I had been very angry with her, very

unsparing towards her,  on that day we met
almost as strangers, we never addressed each
other, we avoided each other's eyes,  and
now, I can think of nothing and of no one
else. By night and day she is before me,
with those mournful, hunted, stag-like eyes
turned now on one, now on another, as they
were on that wretched day. I saw them,
though they were never once lifted towards
me. I must see them again  I tell you, I
must see them again."

CHAPTER XXXI.

garland's manoeuvre.

And I have acted well my part 
Have made my cheek belie my heart 
Returned the freezing glance she gave, 
Yet felt the while that woman's slave."

Btrox.

All the next day Portland hung about restless
and unsettled, sharply demanding the
reason of every sound, or bell, or wheel, and
watching the opening of every door.

His cousin was not to leave her room until
four o'clock, but he began to prepare for that
hour long before.

In the first place, he despatched a note to
Major Gilbert, for the ostensible purpose of
conveying Lady Julia's bulletin of the patient,
but whose real object lay in a casual line to

the effect that if he should be in Longminster
that afternoon, he would look Gilbert up on
the chance of finding him in between four and
five o'clock.

Such a hint would, he knew, be amply
sufficient to keep the hospitable soldier in
quarters until after all hopes of its fulfilment
had passed,  by which time he was welcome
to go where he would. It was a shabby
stratagem, for which the writer heartily despised
himself,  nothing being further from
his thoughts than to appear either at Long-minster
or at the barracks that day,  but he
felt that the Abbey must he secured from
invasion at all hazards, and could think of
nothing else likely to accomplish the desired
end. Gilbert was invariably attentive to him,
and proud of any attention received in return,
and he had not called often enough to make
the civility common. He could reckon on the
effect the note would produce.

The next person to be disposed of was his
aunt. With Lady Julia hovering round, intercepting

every remark, answering for Rosamond
at every turn, betraying every thought
of her limpid bosom, and effectually preventing
his discovering and observing anything
for himself, the hour would be shorn
of half its wealth. She must be amicably
put out of the way; and to that end, he
ordered her carriage at a quarter past four,
and went in search of her with a scheme in
his head.

Have you any objection to driving over
to King's Common this afternoon ? " he inquired,
carelessly ; "it might be as well to go,
might it not % "

This afternoon, my dear ? My feeling
just now is, that I must keep as far away from
King's Common as ever I can."

But your influence, Aunt Julia "

My influence, my dear  what is my influence
1 " cried the little spinster with the
utmost vivacity. " I never had any influence,
I never shall have any. Theodore and I
have always agreed very well  though I do

think he rather likes to talk to me of dead-antigone
people in books, because he knows I

have never heard of them but on the whole

we are good enough friends. Only I feel that
he despises me, and that if Caroline had let
him, he would have shown it long ago."

He opened his eyes.

Oh, I did not in the least mind," continued
she. " Caroline never would have
permitted him or any one else to be rude tome,
and w T hile she and the dear children loved
me " she stopped, with watery eyes.

And now my only reason for mentioning
this," presently resumed the speaker, "is to
prove that nothing I can do would have the
slightest effect upon my brother-in-law. If it
were you"  she paused  "if you were to
remonstrate, he might listen to you ; he certainly
thinks a great deal of you ; and he is
easily frightened, easily managed by those of
whom he is in awe ; poor Caroline had no
trouble with him "

Just so," said Portland ; " the trouble

comes afterwards. When a man has been
in leading-strings all his life, he hardly knows
what to do with his liberty when he is turned
loose at fifty."

He ought to think of his family, his connections,
his reputation," cried Lady Julia.

"He will think of nothing, and stick at
nothing, if once he is in love," said Portland,
with a strange look on his face.

In love ! " Lady Julia almost screamed.
In love ! Oh, you would not, you could not
degrade the sacred name of love by applying
it to such an infatuation. In love ! A man
whose wife is not yet three months dead !
Who has twelve children ! Some of them
nearly grown up. Who  who  who  oh, the
whole idea is degrading and preposterous."

Degrading and preposterous undoubtedly
but none the less a possible fact. He is
certainly giving rise to remark by his behaviour,
and that is bad enough. The very
servants were tittering behind the screen
during dinner the night I was there."

"It is shameful  shameful."

And his being seen driving the girls about
a thins: he has never done before  will set
the villagers' tongues wagging."

Yes, indeed."

"They will have come in by half-past four,
Aunt Julia."

"Ami really to go, Portland ? "

I have already given a conditional order
for your carriage, ma'am ; they will bring it
round, unless you send word to the contrary."

Thank you, my dear," said poor Lady
Julia, humbly : she was never better pleased
than to be thus played the tyrant to, and he
had the grace to feel ashamed as, soon after, he
saw her go cheerfully up-stairs to get ready,
having no notion why she was being sent,
nor what she was expected to do, nor indeed
with any understanding of the case at all,
except that he had willed, and she must obey.

He met his deserts when she came down

again.

It is as well that you proposed this forme,

my dear," she cried at once. " Rosamond
lias given up the idea of coming into the
boudoir to - day ; she thinks she will not
venture. I told her I thought of going to
King s Common, and she was quite pleased 
anxious, indeed, that I should. Poor dear,
she has not yet confided in me, though everyday
I hope she will. But we must first get

all these Gilberts out of the way "

If we can."

"Dear me, Portland, how gloomy you
look. You were much brighter a little while
ago, but you have clouded over again since
I came down. What is the matter % Nothing
new ? Nothing more ? "
Nothing, ma'am," shortly.
You were not thinking of going with me,
I suppose ? "

You will get on better without me, Aunt
Julia."

That I shall not ; but, however, there is
no occasion for your being dragged over. It
is not an agreeable visit "

"And there is no need to make it too
complimentary. "

Certainly not. And were you to go, it
would be decidedly too complimentary. You
are quite right, as usual. I shall set off by
myself, then, and you will stop here to
mount guard."

(" A thankless guard," muttered he, to himself.
" And when all had turned out so
luckily ! I shall never again be able to
manage as well. Next time, things may
take their chance, for me")

The embassy returned in part baffled  butin
part enlightened. Lady Julia had seen
nobody, but she had learned a good deal.
The whole party, consisting of Mr Liscard,
his daughter Catharine, and Emily and Henrietta
Gilbert, were over at Longminster,
lunching at the barracks, and spending the
afternoon in viewing the various objects of
interest in the town, according to Badeley,
who had added that they were not expected
home till dinner-time, and that Major Gilbert

VOL. II r. H

was, he believed, to return with them. An
orderly had ridden over in the morning with
a note from the major, directly on receipt of
which, orders had been sent to the stables,
and the young ladies had run to get ready,
he did not think there had been any talk
of the project before the arrival of the orderly.
The party had started soon after twelve.

(" He had just had time to get my note,
and send for them' concluded Portland, perceiving
it all at a glance. "So if my plans
have been knocked to pieces, there is the satisfaction
of knowing that others too have had
theirs disconcerted")

It would hardly have amused him to have
walked about Longminster with Etta Gilbert,
preceded by Em and Mr Liscard, and followed
by Catharine and her big brother-in-law-to-be.
He could see the party now, in his mind's eye,
and a faint smile stole over his face.

Lady Julia had next, she said, driven on to
the Waterfields', and Mrs Waterfields had told
her a vast amount of tell-tale.

The whole neighbourhood was ao;o2j about
the past week's doings at King's Common.
How two handsome young ladies in the smartest
of blue and red cloaks had been each day
trotted through the village in Mr Liscard's
own particular mail - phaeton, the widower
himself handling the ribbons, and one or
other of the gay visitors on the box beside
him. How they had been seen going and
returning, and had evidently been long distances.
People had remembered that Mr
Liscard had never driven Lady Caroline.
He had either been alone, or accompanied
by some elderly male friend, when he had
had the phaeton out in former times. The
change had been taken note of instantly, and
servants' gossip had supplied all that was required
for further predictions.

I said I did think that a great deal
more had been made of it than need have
been." Lady Julia had done what she could
for the family credit, and thus reported her
efforts. " After hearing all, I told Beatrice

Wakefield that although I could not defend
my brother-in-law from the charge of thoughtlessness,
and want of respect to poor Caroline's
memory, yet that it should be remembered
that he had lived so entirely his own life,
and been so much out of the way of hearing
public opinion, that he probably never gave
appearances a thought in the matter. What
the outside world thought, never did have
any weight at King's Common. Indeed, my
poor sister was a little, if anything, too unconscious
of it. It often distressed me, I know, to
hear her talking away of having done this and
that, as if it were quite the right thing, and
in the most complete ignorance of its having
any other aspect  when it had perhaps come
round to my ears that the poor dear had given
dire offence by the self-same act ! Oh, one
may be quite too independent, I really do

think "

Very true, Aunt Julia, but that you

will never be. You love to consider everyone.
Now then, about Mrs Wakefield.

What did she say? How did she look
upon your line of defence ? Did she go in
with you, or with the village folks ? Did she
had she  I suppose she had drunk it all in,
and was ready for more ? Every one will be
glad of a fling at King's Common now, Mrs
Wakefield at their head," be added, bitterly.

"My dear, I do not think you should quite
say that. Beatrice was poor Caroline's friend,
and naturally she was shocked and grieved.
I own I did think that perhaps she entered
on the subject rather eagerly ; and rather
perhaps dwelt upon it more than she need
have done ; but "

"Ha! ha! ha!" burst out Portland. "I
thought our kind friend would not be far
behind the rest. So she ' dwelt upon it
did she ? Fully and lengthily ? Missing
out nothing? Not she,  oh dear, no. It is
a rare piece of fun for them all. Oh, but
King's Common will afford them better
sport yet. They are not half done with us
yet."

Portland ! "

She looked at him in amazement. One
moment all kindness and gentleness, the next
all mockery and derision. It even seemed
at times as though he absolutely gloated
over the havoc of all the old customs and
traditions, in the wreck of what once had
been.

But the laugh had been unreal, and its un-mirthful
tones jarred painfully upon her ear.
She could not, she would not blame him for
it. If only she could understand him ?

And he? He felt that he had let her
understand too much, and the mask fell on
the instant.

Seriously, my dear aunt, we must consider
what is to be done. To-day's jaunt will not
do much towards silencing the talkers, and
tomorrow being Sunday, there will be a good
attendance at church, I should say. The good
souls will flock thither to see what is to be seen
in the King's Common pew. What do you propose
to do, ma'am? Shall you be there? Shall

you go in the morning, as usual, or"  with
a happy thought  "shall I represent you,
while you stay at home with Eosamund, and
I can relieve you in the afternoon ? "

When she could come into the boudoir,
instead of to-day," assented Lady Julia, in
her own little easy way. "Yes, my dear,
that would do nicely; that would be by far
the best way. She would like to see you, I
know; and no one else need know anything
about it."

He could not help feeling that all his former
finesse had been wasted. Had he simply suggested
in the morning what he did now,
he might even at this moment have been by
Eosarnund's side ; and though re-animated by
the new prospect, he wished he had not been
so clever before.

She weill not come down to-night ? " he
ventured.

Oh, my dear, no ; you have no idea how
much she dreads a change of any sort. And
you can understand that were she once to

appear down-stairs, we could not make her
out to be unfit for more,  I mean  we could
not quite put the same face upon her illness,
and really a little management  I would
not be untruthful for the world, but in a case
of illness, you know, management and firmness
are absolutely necessary. She shall not
see those Gilberts'  and Rosamund's plump
little guardian angel looked as red and determined
as she had ever been seen in her life,
and drew up her small, roundabout person,
until it positively grew in height before
Portland's eyes.

He felt he could safely trust her when in
this mood.

With infinite pains she now planned the
next day's campaign, decided who was to be
in and out at church and chapel, interviewed
the clumsy Joseph, a new-comer, whose first
Sunday at the Abbey it was, and who was to
be porter for the afternoon (an office as often
as not a sinecure, but which on this particular
Sunday had risen to importance), and at the

appointed hour on the morrow, betook herself
off down the avenue, prayer-book and hymnbook
in hand  but her bodily presence, it is
to be feared, ever getting farther and farther
away from the spirit which had been left
behind.

Ah, if those had but been two lovers she
had left there ! Even as matters stood, there
was enough of doubt and uncertainty about
them to afford a gleam of hope, and even a
gleam in those dark days was something.
She now knew for certain that Rosamond had
ceased to care for Gilbert, and she knew  at
least she thought she knew  that this fact
had a strange interest for another.

Wisely she wished to know no more. Time
must work out its own problem.

Still it was delightful to think of her own
two sitting together in the cosy boudoir, and
of Joseph's strict orders to exclude all others ;
and feeling that such a state of things could
not be improved upon, the service, even with
a christening in addition, seemed all too short,

and the rector and his sister were favoured
with her ladyship's company for a good half-hour
after its conclusion.

So long indeed did she linger, that the swift
approaching darkness rendering an escort advisable,
obliged Mr Stoneby to offer his own.
He was not sorry, thinking he should see Hart-land
; but Portland was nowhere about, and
though Lady Julia made sure of finding him
with his cousin, she was told he had been gone
from the boudoir some time previously. Rosamund
looked fatigued and pale, and her aunt
felt sure she had been in tears, and that more
had passed than she was to hear of. This
was a little, just a little, hard to bear, and almost
any one else, even the kindest and tenderest
of nurses, would have pressed for a
confidence, or, at any rate, have sought to
beguile one.

Not so Lady Julia. With a loving tact
which only the purest unselfishness could have
prompted, she seemed to see and observe
nothing, while she ran cheerfully on about

the weather, the sermon, the collection, and
the congregation, as if these subjects alone
occupied her mind.

Next she went down to dismiss her escort,
and see him off the premises, with an instinct
that he was not wanted at this crisis ; and
finally, despatching the trusty Charlotte to
attend to the patient, she did not even
indulge herself by returning to the boudoir,
but betook herself off to her own room, as
was her habit at that hour.

There we will leave the kind soul, and see
for ourselves the scene to her mortal vision
denied.

Portland, on being admitted to his cousin's
presence, was inexpressibly startled at the
change which a few days' illness had wrought
in her. He had not realised that this change
had begun some time before ; that the fragile
form now before him had been drooping and
wasting for some weeks past, and that the
strength had been by swift degrees also
waning:. Accustomed as he had been to

seeing Eosamund almost daily, the gradual
alteration had been invisible ; it had been
obliterated by the feverish flush upon her
cheek, the fire in her eye, the agitated voice
and restless movements  there had been a
false brilliancy thrown over all  and it was
not till he perceived her divested of all stimulus,
and every motive for effort and exertion,
that he was convinced that Lady Julia's demonstrative
anxiety had not been overdone.

At the first sight, indeed, he felt as if his
aunt had scarce been anxious enough.

His step involuntarily slackened, and his
accents grew tremulous as he drew near the
large arm-chair in which the invalid reclined,
and made the inquiry, " Are you better, Rosamond
1 "

I think so, Portland."

He sat down. " Tell me if I am in the way,
you know."

"Oh yes, I'll tell you." She smiled, then
flushed and paled, and a sense of embarrassment
began to creep in. Was it to be an

interview of ordinary commonplaces and small-talk,
or one fraught with the deepest significance
and purport \ Each seemed to know
that if nothing w T ere now to be breathed of
that which was causing alike each heart to
beat, one would be as grievously discontented
as the other : and yet, who was to speak ? Who
was to begin it 1

"I hope you do not feel this room too
warm," murmured she, at last.

Oh no ; it is very comfortable."

Aunt Julia would have the fire made up
before she left."

She was quite right. We need large fires
now ; " and he shivered slightly, looked out
of the window at the gathering mists, looked
again at the brightly blazing fire, and finally
looked at her. The last glance was hurried,
and almost stealthy  and she knew it was so.

What have you been doing since I have
been up here ? "

It seemed as if something must be said by
one or other to prevent a blank, awkward

silence ; and, as usual, the woman was the
quicker.

"Nothing that I know of  nothing at all,
that I can think of."

Have you seen anybody \ Have you been
anywhere % "

"I have not been anywhere, except to King's
Common."

"Well?"

He was silent.

I must say you are not a lively companion,"
observed poor Eosamund, at her
wits' end ; and, moreover, a little exasperated
that all the task of taking the initiative should
be laid upon her. " Come, think of something
to say  something to tell me ; and let it be
amusing and interesting, if you please. Exert
yourself for my entertainment. You were sent

here to entertain me ; and now, when "

then she suddenly met his eyes, and broke off.

He was looking her full in the face ; and,
struck afresh by her paleness, her feebleness,
the dark rims round her eyes, the poor attempt

at gaiety  the whole so touching in
its pitiful appeal  he could no longer repress
evidence of the emotion with which his breast
was charged.

I see," said she, in an altered voice. " I
see. You are sorry for me."

He nodded.

If I thought I could speak about it, and
and  if you would have patience, and  bea
little kind," continued the speaker, her
own breath beginning to come and go, " I
should like to say something. Could you
come a little nearer 1 ?  no, not so near as
that," smiling, as he instantly placed a chair
at her side ; " now you frighten me. It is
only that I  I am not very strong, and my
voice goes away sometimes, so that I cannot
make people hear. There, that will do," ashe
moved a pace or two farther off. " Hart-land,
I daresay you can guess what it is that
I want to say. I was very angry with you
that night."

"So I saw, Rosamund."

I want you, first of all, to forgive me."
li You mean you wish to forgive me, dear,"
the word slipped out, he did not know
when he said it.

I mean nothing of the kind," said Rosamond,
firmly. "I mean that I know now
that I was wrong, and that I knew it then
though my proud, miserable heart would
not acknowledge it; and that it was right
and true of you to speak as you did, if it
was a little  a little hard to bear ; " and her
lips quivered. "I have been very wicked.
I have been acting a cruel part; and I am
frightened and ashamed when I look back
upon it," continued she. " It was worse,
worse than even you knew, Portland. You
don't know what a dreadful, dreadful temptation
I had, and how I gave way to it when
we two, Major Gilbert and I, were alone
together; and I thought, I fancied no one
would ever know how it had come about if
we separated, nor whose fault it was. If
you had seen how odious I sought to make

myself! How I would repel his kindest
advances, and refuse his most trifling requests
 why need I go into it all ? No
other man would have borne it for an hour ;
and you  you would never have come near

me again.

He murmured something, she could not
catch what.

You knew nothing of this," she repeated,
mournfully.

I saw enough to  to " stammered he.

I had fancied no one about me saw anything,
till you spoke. Oh, how astonished I
was! Well," after a pause,  "well, it is
past. I have had time to think of it all ; "
she covered her face with her hands. " I
have thought, and I have tried  to pray.
God will help me now to do what is right.
I think I see my way clear. I hope it is.
I will try to love him "

Portland started.

I will do my best to make up for all
these weeks of unkindness, and he will learn

VOL. III. I

to forget them' continued the speaker, endeavouring
to be calm. "And you, dear
cousin, must learn to forget them too, and
that you ever had to give me that evening s
warning. It ought to have opened my eyes.
I think it did. Only I was so unhappy.
But I am happier now  my mind is clearer.
I wish to do my duty ; and surely to be the
wife of a kind, good man like Major Gilbert
is no great punishment for all that I have
been, and done. I deserve that my self-will
and stubbornness should have brought
a far, far greater one upon me. If I can
only make up to him for all  be to him all

that he thinks me " here again voice

failed.

"You mean this, Eosamund ? " He spoke
at last.

Indeed I do, Portland. I have thought
it all out, as I have lain in there hour after
hour, by night and by day,  you don't know
what long, sleepless nights I have had, hearing
the hours chime one after another,  and

even when I have been sleeping, I have had
the one thought working in and out of my
dreams, till sometimes I could scarcely bear
any more. I shall see Frederick tomorrow,
if  if I am well enough"  and again her
faltering accents betrayed the effort,  " and
when he comes, I shall beg him to overlook
all my foolish petulance and coldness. I
hope he will put it down to illness  I think
he will. It would be best, because I could
not explain "

"Why not?" said Portland, in a deep
abrupt tone.

Tell him that I had had "

  " Ceased to care for him."

For shame," said Eosamund, indignantly ;
you know that I could not do that. For
his sake, I could not. If I did, it would
be  it would be  oh, you know as well as
I, what could be the only result of that. I
must  yes, I must let the past alone ; and
in the future he shall have nothing to complain
of."

Can you do this, Rosamond ? "

"I can:" she clasped her hands  "I

can."

Your mind is quite made up ? "

'quite, quite; nothing can alter it now.
I look upon myself already as Frederick's
wife, and what I could have done then, I
can now. I feel myself as much bound to
him by what has passed between us, as if
I wore the wedding-ring. Am I not right ?
You do  you must think I am. And as I
knew that you have always liked Frederick,
and have always done him justice, I felt
that I wished myself to tell you this, because
you had been vexed and pained with
me on his account. You will never need to
be vexed with me again, Portland,"  and
her voice was inexpressibly low and sad, 
believe me, I shall not vex you any more."

He laid his hand on hers, and felt that
she was weeping.

The gathering dusk had settled over the
little room, and hid the faces of its occupants

; the blaze of firelight had died down,
and betrayed no secrets.

Silently the two sat for a few moments,
thus.

She thought that he had accepted her
promise, and that she had his approval, 
he felt all further speech to be useless.

Neither spoke again, and presently he rose,
and went softly out.

CHAPTER XXXII.

THE TRUTH.

Truths that wake
To perish never."

Ode to Immortality.

"And my soul, from out that shadow that lies floating on the floor,
Shall be lifted  Nevermore ! "

E. A. Poe.

Even yet she is not willing to give it up ?
She actually intends to go on with those
Gilberts even now \ " cried Lady Julia in the
utmost consternation, when time and pains
had elicited at length as much from Hartlancl.
He was standing with his back to the speaker,
leaning heavily against the mantelpiece in an
ungracious, uncommunicative attitude ; and as
she watched him, all the little flutter of hope
and expectancy until now half-unconsciously
cherished, sank and faded away.

It was by watching rather than by listening,
that she gathered she had now nothing either
to hope for or expect.

My dear," she proceeded mournfully, " do
bear with me for once, and  and look round
and tell me all. Is Eosamund  do I understand
that her mind is made up to go on with
those Gilberts ? " Eosamund's engagement had
now, it will be seen, become in her aunt's eyes
no longer a thing by itself, but was merely one
portion of a fell scheme on the part of a marauding
trio now occupied with their other
prey, and who, if not prevented, would presently
swallow up father and daughter alike.
They are such dreadful, dreadful people ! "
moaned she.

There is not a word to be said against
him ! " exclaimed Portland, almost fiercely.
Believe me, Aunt Julia, your best policy is
to give up all this hostility and reconcile yourself
to the inevitable. You will do Eosamund
an infinitely greater service by cheerfully accepting
the position ; receiving Major Gilbert

as her future husband ; and, for her sake, overlooking
whatever to you is not agreeable about
him and his ; than by seeking to dissuade her
from doing what she believes to be her duty.
You know Rosamond. She is more hard to
move when she is calm and collected, than in
the heat of battle. She is perfectly calm now,
and what she says she will do. She may be
right  I do not know. But this I am sure of

she is not to be moved. Therefore "

He paused, drew in a long breath, and dropped
his head again upon his hands.

"She will have a bad night after this,"
reflected Lady Julia, relapsing into the patient's
nurse. "And I had so hoped she was to be
better, not worse, for the little change. I had
thought that you might reason with her; and
that if she could be once prevailed upon to put
an end to this odious affair "

 "For heaven's sake, ma'am, no more

of that ! Forgive me, Aunt Julia," said the
young man, letting go his hold and coming
towards her, "I am not fit to talk to you

about it  that is the truth. But if I could
only bring you to see that  that this sort of
thing must be stopped, that these expressions
are of no use -in short, that the marriage is
as good as consummated now in Eosamund's
mind  you would surely understand to talk
differently. When a thing has simply got to
be "

So you say, Portland ; but," replied Lady
Julia with quiet persistence, " there is time
yet. It cannot possibly take place before some
months have passed."

"It ought to take place at once."

Her jaw fell.

My dear aunt," continued Portland, more
gently, " I know this is hard on you. Perhaps
it is so on me, too. I am not eager for the alliance.
But what I said before, I repeat  that
for good or ill, Eosamund will now keep her
word ; and if you had seen her as I did this
afternoon  feverish, hurried, tossed, and yet
immovable  you would know that it is no
kindness to prolong this state of suspense.

Once the thing is done, I think she will be
happier,  God knows, I hope so."

But you still think she does not love him ? "

A spasm crossed his face.

What do you think ? "

Still no reply.

Do you think she ever can, or ever will ? "

With a sort of convulsion the answer came
at last.

No. God help her, no ! No . no
. . no." And a groan, which could no
longer be suppressed, forced itself from between
his clenched teeth as the last word died
away.

Lady Julia fell back in her chair. For once
in her life power of expression was denied her ;
and though she remained still and motionless
where she was for a long time, only every now
and again glancing uneasily round at her companion,
she never once addressed him further,
and they separated for the night without any
attempt at reopening the conversation.

Yes, she has had a bad night, as I feared

she would, Dr Makin," she announced to the
little doctor, the following morning. " She
was over-excited in the afternoon, talking and
seeing people "

Major Gilbert was over, I suppose 1 "

No, not Major Gilbert. No, he has not
seen her yet. But  but others. And they
talked, as young people do ; and forgot that she
was an invalid, and could not bear much. If
I had been at home  but I was at church, at
the afternoon service, and she came into the
boudoir, and Lord Portland joined her there,"
proceeded the simple lady, who invariably
undid her own infantile efforts at diplomacy
the instant after they were made,  " Lord
Portland was with her all the time "

"Ah!"

And I found her quite tired out, when I
came home."

"That was a pity."

"And she has been very much exhausted
ever since."

No breakfast, eh?"

A cup of tea. Hardly anything besides."

Medicine suiting her ? "

She will tell you that best herself. I think
her head aches, but it may not have had anything
to do with the medicine."

Probably it has, though. If a composing
draught is not allowed to take effect, it is apt
to produce headache. Revenges itself, as it
were. Well, we must have no more exciting
conversations. Lord Portland will please to
remember that. And as he is not Major
Gilbert "

She is determined to see Major Gilbert today,
however' said Lady Julia. " And I cannot
stop it, unless  unless you " and she

regarded her kind old friend and adviser
wistfully.

Suppose we go up and have a peep at our
patient first, my lady. I will not let her see
any one, nor do anything that is to harm her
you may be sure of that. If Major Gilbert
is to prove as bad a companion as Lord Hart-land,"
smiling, " we must just close the gates,

and pull up the drawbridge." Saying which,
he held open the door with his little air of old-fashioned
courtesy, and followed his conductor
up the staircase.

But his face was longer when he came down
again. " She really is by no means so well
as on Saturday," he pronounced very gravely,
directly he and Lady Julia were again alone
in the drawing-room. " Pulse and temperature
both unsatisfactory. No appetite, and a
good deal of fever. Colour too bright. Restless
eye. I do not understand all this nervous
excitement"  then he raised his head, which
had hung down as he ruminated, and cleared
his throat with the look of a man who has
taken a sudden resolution.

"Lady Julia, I am going to be very plain
with you, and you must excuse my saying that
I expect you to be equally plain with me. It
is no possible good my coming and going and
prescribing for my patient, unless I am put in
full possession of all the facts of the case. I
cannot undertake to benefit your niece in the

slightest degree, if anything, any mental disquietude,
any undermining source of trouble,
is kept back from me. That something of the
kind exists, I cannot help surmising. I feel
nearly sure that there is something or other
weighing on Miss Rosamond's mind, and
counteracting all our care. If that be the
case, I may as well discontinue my prescriptions,
for they will do her no good. Unless
we can strike at the real evil "

Oh, if we could ! "

To his surprise, Lady Julia made the above
ejaculation with an amount of fervour for
which he had been unprepared.

"Well, my lady," he began.

Hush  sh  sh ! " rejoined she, in a whisper
so imperative and prolonged, that it seemed as
if the echo of the final " sh ! " would never die
away ; and then she looked round the large,
many - windowed apartment, cautiously and
fearfully. " These rooms are so very unsafe,"
she murmured. " It is almost impossible to be
sure of not being overheard in a great room

like this, with all these pillars, and stands,
and statues. Is that door shut ? No. But
the sound could hardly have been carried sofar.
Still, would you oblige me by coming
this way ? The library is usually empty at
this hour, and Portland is out, I know, this
morning. There we may speak freely ; and I
own, Dr Makin, I do wish to speak freely. I
must have a little unreserved conversation
with you. Follow me, if you please." And
she led the way to a smaller apartment, yet
stately in its own fashion, lined with bookcases,
and comfortably supplied with lounge
writing-tables, and light literature.
A fire was burning brightly in the hearth, and
its blaze was not the less welcome that the
light from the large, mullions window was
partially obscured by a heavy folding-screen,
drawn midway across, to keep out possible
draughts. The softest of Turkey carpets
completed the luxury of the whole, and rendered
a footfall almost inaudible.

Lady Julia advanced nevertheless with a

stealthy tread, as though conscious of being on
an unusual errand ; and it was not until she
had first seen that no Lord Portland was in
his usual chair by the fire, that she beckoned
her companion to follow, and noiselessly slid
the fastenings of the door after him.

That done, however, courage appeared to
return, and in her wonted quick, energetic
tones she plunged at once into the heart of
the matter.

Dr Makin, you are right. Something is
preying on Rosamund's mind ; and it is this
most unhappy, most unfortunate engagement
to Major Gilbert which is the cause of her illness.
She "

A look  what was it ? A gleam of horror
and affright upon the face in front of her !
The eyeballs starting from her companion's
head ! His lips falling apart ! His raised,
warning, imploring hand ! What could it
mean \ Upon what was his terrified gaze
fixed, above and beyond her ?

Upon something, or  oh, heaven !  someone

? She turned. It was even so. She
found herself confronted by Gilbert himself!

At the first sound of her voice, he had awakened
from a musing fit in the window embrasure
; and although he had advanced on the instant,
he had not been able to present himself,
before he had distinctly caught every syllable
uttered in Lady Julia's clearest, most emphatic
accents. His movements had not been able to
keep pace with her rapidity ; and all could
now perceive what had been done.

A frozen minute succeeded, grim to look
back upon, terrible to experience.

Dr Makin was the first to recover himself.
I will look in again this afternoon," he said,
hastily ; and the door opened and shut after
him, leaving two motionless figures within,
breathing silently in each other's faces.

I heard something so strange just now,"
said Gilbert at last, speaking slowly, and looking
steadily at his companion, " that if I had
been in any other house, or if it had been said
by any other speaker "

VOL. III. K

Lady Julia sank down upon a seat, and
covered her face with her hands.

"But you," continued the voice, which
should have been familiar to her, and yet was
one the like of which she had never heard before
 " you, who have been ever a kind friend,
a true woman ; you whom I respect and esteem,
whom I have ever had cause to be grateful
to ; you, who alone in this unfriendly neighbourhood
have shown me frank hospitality
and kindness, have welcomed me to your
family hearth "

Stop  stop." She put out her hands as
though to deny his words, but he took no
notice.

You, I know, would not deceive me, would
not resort to such a method "

Oh, no  believe me  indeed, indeed "

She wrung her hands in anguish unbearable :
no moment of her life had ever been like this.

And yet I hear you say such words, and
say them, too, in such a way, that had they
been uttered by any one else  by any man at

least  I would have dashed the lie from his
lips," proceeded the speaker, with a calm that
was far more appalling than tempest. " I hear
you tell another, and him no subject for a jest
I hear you make an announcement to him
that is so  so strange  that concerns me so
nearly, that I can only bid myself to remember
you were once my friend, and ask if you were
not dreaming  not wandering  when you
thus spoke 1 "

She shook her head. She durst not look at
him.

Not ? " said he. He paused, and watched
her for a few seconds.

Have you any right  any authority  that

you thus dare to make a statement which "

He paused again.

Still no word, no sound emanated from the
bowed form at his side.

Lady Julia, I am entitled to a reply."

If Portland were only here ! " moaned she
at length.

Lord Portland ! "

"He knows that it is the truth, only the
truth ; but oh ! that you should have heard it
thus ! "

If it be the truth, what matters how it is
heard ? But let me understand you, Lady
Julia, and, I beseech you, no trifling. This is
life and death to some of us. You spoke of this
most unhappy, most unfortunate engagement'
To whom is it unhappy and unfortunate ? "

She winced visibly.

I have a right to know," he said. He did
not move from where he had taken up his
stand by a hair's-breadth, and the very muscles
of his face were rigid.

It is her I have to think of  my only
sister's own child," whimpered the frightened,
timid woman at last. " Oh, Major Gilbert, you
do not know what Rosamund is to me. If she
has made a mistake, and has not acted towards
you quite as she ought to have done, let me
put in one word for the poor child, the poor
darling, too young to know better, not able to
run alone, and so bitterly, bitterly punished."

Punished ! " The word escaped him.

Lady Julia echoed it.

Punished, indeed. Oh, she has suffered 
no one knows how she has suffered. Could
you not see it ? Will you not believe it ? "

When you can explain your meaning,
Lady Julia,"  but in spite of the assumed
firmness, he was shaken.

It was a mistake from the very first," she
almost whispered. " You know how closely
those poor children had been kept ; and, as a
matter of fact, you were the very first person
who had ever been bold enough to pay my poor
Rosamond any attention,  lovely as she was,
she had scarcely been seen, and she had never
seen any one  hardly any one, in return.
She admired you  you became a sort of heroin
her eyes  indeed in all our eyes, for your
noble, your courageous conduct,  and then
she thought, she fancied,  in fact, she mistook
that feeling for another. My poor sister saw
this, and would have saved her ; but unhappily
her interference roused all Rosamund's

generous nature. She would not hear the
absent attacked. She supposed then that she
cared for you,  but she did not know herself.
She did not know what she was doing. Major
Gilbert, will you, can you, have pity on my
child? She is so young. And oh, forgive
her. She is so miserable."

He had not, by word or sign, attempted
to stem the current of her words. He had
hearkened attentively, drawing long breaths,
but without movement or exclamation; and
she felt that if she could only move him, reach
him, break through this terrible self-control, it
would be worth all the risk and effort.

She began to plead afresh. " What I only
saw the other day," she said, " there was one
of us saw Ions: ago "

"Who?" Like a bolt from a

cannon-mouth.

Portland warned me it was so "

Portland did, did he ? " There was rising
passion in the tone. "This is Portland's
doing, is it ? He saw  he whispered  he

sympathised  perhaps he even suggested, 
oh, I think I see the light now. A peeress ? 

A coronet ? She would have been an angel

if she had not been tempted. And yet I
could have trusted Rosamond' softening 
I could have believed in Rosamund "

Believe in her still. Oh no, she has not
been tempted ; and he has never tried to tempt
her. Would it had been so ! " sighed poor
Lady Julia, unable to resist the aspiration.
"It was what we all wished "

And he has been in league with you ? "

"He has not  he never would. Oh, long
ago, long ago, if they could have  have cared
for each other, we should have been so pleased,
so glad,  but it was not to be. No, Major
Gilbert, you are altogether wrong about Lord
Portland," with a fragile attempt at dignity ;
"there never was anything between them 
never."

Why, so I thought," said Gilbert, gloomily.
But what the devil  your pardon, Lady
Julia, but what, then, is a fellow to suppose ?

You tell me he was the first to  to perceive
this alteration in my future wife, and what
am I to understand from that, but that he
had a special motive for such discernment ? T
suppose Eosamund has confided in you ? "
he added, abruptly.

"No, I cannot say that she exactly has."

Not asked advice, nor besought your intercessory
good offices  that sort of thing ? "
scornfully.

"Never, by a single word," averred Lady
Julia, with the utmost solemnity, and not
perceiving the extent of such an admission.

Not ! " exclaimed he : his surprise was
evidently great, and was followed by a look
of doubt and perplexity. " But I thought  I
thought  you came straight from Eosamund's
room ; I never doubted but that you had her
warrant "

I had nothing of the kind. She and I
have never let one word upon the subject pass
between us."

More and more strange," muttered Gilbert,

but the cloud upon his brow obviously lifted.
"You must allow me to observe then, Lady
Julia, that you were hardly justified  though
what matters it ? " he suddenly cried, with a
reaction to joy and relief alike touching and
frightful to behold. " My dear lady, I excuse
you ; I know you mean well ; but I believe,
from my soul, you are in error. You have
been misled by this illness. You have been
upset, and have hit upon a false scent. You
have not been all day, and every day, with
your niece, as I have of late, and seen this
coming on  the result of grief, a shock, a
nervous depression all at once. Your own
medical man vouches for this attack being one
of pure nervous depression. Take my word for
it, you have been dwelling on it with exaggerated
apprehensions, until they took this form.
Possibly you had noticed, and misunderstood,
some trifling irritability  Eosamund has been
unable to help a little irritability of late  and
you have connected this with your present
fears. Oh, I was a fool, a madman, to take

for granted what I did. I will not so wrong
her and myself again. Unworthy suspicions
of Portland too ! But I scarce knew what I
was saying. Let me now go up to Rosamond.
I am impatient  can you wonder at it ?  to
put this misconception straight, although I
promise you that I do not fear the result.
No, I do not doubt her  not for a moment.
She must never know that I once did  it
would hurt her too much."

"Major Gilbert, I cannot let you go up."
Is she in a nunnery  is she locked up
behind prison bars ? " cried he, half angry, half
jesting. "Come, Lady Julia, trust me. I will
do Rosamond no harm. I am not a boy with
no experience of sick-rooms ; and I will be as
tender as a woman with your charge. She
shall not suffer through my seeing her,  but see
her I must," he added, in a tone that none
would have dared to trifle with. "This is too
serious a matter  I had almost said an accusation
 to be altogether dismissed ; and your
good doctor must not be left labouring under

a delusion, neither. From Rosamond's own
lips "

She will not give you up," cried

Lady Julia, in an agony.

I shall not ask her to give me up."

"Are you going to question her? Oh,
Major Gilbert, it was the truth, the solemn
truth, you heard from me "

I hardly think it was."

Oh dear, oh dear I I cannot say more.
I cannot convince you "

M If it be the truth, Lady Julia, Eosamund

can convince me : one word from her "

and he moved towards the door.

One moment  one moment. I know she
will say she will marry you. If that is the
question you mean to put to her "

It is not the question."

I have not come to torture you, my dear,
nor to blame you. You have told me truly,
as in the sight of heaven, the one thing I
cared to know, and why need I remain for

more ? You no longer love me. All is over
between us."

The brave soldier knew the worst, and faced
it thus.

I should never, never have told you.
Frederick ;  God knows I meant to be  to bea
good wife to you' faltered the pale, deathlike
lips before him. " I have been so miserable,
so ashamed"  between heavy sobs 
and I had been going now to be so different.
Let me try. Only let me try. Frederick,
there is still time, and I can, I will,  if you
will bear with me, if you will but have a little
patience, and  and trust me once again."

Do you and myself a great wrong, Rosamund
? "

Oh no  not now. Not now that you
know all. I ought to have told you myself,
ought I not? They said so, but  but I was
such a coward ; and I thought, I fancied things
might come round without that. You have
forgiven me, haven't you \ And you will let
me try, won't you ? None but ourselves need

ever know, nor guess about  about to-day.
Let it be so, Frederick. Let it be between us

two. You will help me to "

Deceive the world 1 Is that my

proud, pure, spotless Rosamund ? Would she
go with me before the altar with a lie in her
mouth ? Would she let me place a lie upon
her ringer 1 Give me her fair cheek to pressa
lie upon 1 "

Oh no ! Oh, not that ! "

"No, not that. You could not do that,
Rosamund. You could not carry it through,
even if you were to try. Many a woman
could  but not you. See now, you have
broken down already, broken down at the
very outset, and that so palpably that others
have seen it, though I was blind. Do you
really think that you could vow in the sight
of heaven to love, honour, and obey me "

But I would, I would do them all."

"Your will is strong," he said sadly, "but
it has been beaten in the fight already. You
do not love me, you could not "

At least I could honour and obey."

The words are nothing," said Gilbert, with
a momentary impatience ; " the spirit would
not be there  it is dead already. Do not
press me further, Eosamund ; I am not a
hasty man. You have no cause to fear that
I shall ever reconsider this decision, or importune
you further. Here we part, and part forever.
There is no ill-will between us." His
chest heaved. " I think I shall always care
for you," he said.

"Oh, stop! Oh, this is dreadful ! "she
caught his hand.

He smiled drearily. "Not so dreadful as
it might have been. Be thankful it has not
come too late for both of us. You will grow
well, and forget, and be happy. If you should
marry Portland "

Marry Portland I " Her surprise was

evident and genuine. He looked keenly at
her. " It was a mere idea' he said ; " I
ought not to have given it utterance. Still,
I am glad I did ; glad to know "

Good heaven ! you did not suspect me 
or him  of such a thing % " cried Rosamund,
in new agitation. " Yet what right have I "
with a fresh burst of tears  "to feel insulted
by any suspicion ? But Portland, what
has he done ? "

"I will tell you, Rosamund. Lady Julia
let fall that he had been the first to penetrate
the secret of your altered looks ; and such
quickness u

But it was on your account, Frederick,
indeed it was. If you had heard how coldly,
how harshly he spoke to me  if you had seen
how little he seemed to care for my pain !
He was kinder afterwards ; but even now' 
and her lip trembled afresh.

Yes, I believe he has acted a fair and
honourable part by me," said Gilbert, after a
pause ; " he M

He has he has."

"So be it. Bid him ' farewell ' from me,
and assure him of my  of every kind feeling.
Tell Lady Julia I pray her to forgive anything

I may have said unkind or disrespectful
just now, when I was hardly master of
myself. I shall see your father, and personally
acquaint him with the truth. I will
save you all I can. And now,"  he took
her hand,  " and now, my one, my only love
the time is passing  and we may never
meet again upon this earth,  say one kind
word  give me one look  one kiss'  she
sobbed aloud, but there was no moisture in
his eye,  " do not let it trouble you ; but if
you could say it," he murmured, "let me
have this one assurance to carry through life,
that whatever may be the present state of
your heart, you loved me once  you loved me
that one, happy day ? "

She tried to speak, but could not.

"Nay, then, I will not press it." He misinterpreted
the evident struggle. " I see I
was in a fool's paradise "

No." The answer came in a hoarse,

quivering whisper at last. "No. You were
not. Not then. Not at that time."

Was I not ? You did care ? " A gleam
stole over his brow.

I did. Believe me. I truly did."

You did love me  or at least you thought
so?"

Yes ; indeed, yes."

That, then, at least, is still my own.
Thank God for that. I may dare to treasure
that one remembrance  that broken spar from
off the wreck. All the rest is gone  gone."
He put his hands before his eyes for a moment,
removed them, gazed long and earnestly
upon her face, then turned to go.

"Farewell," he said, "farewell. I shall
leave this neighbourhood as soon as possible,
and England likewise. You shall not be
troubled with me. Farewell, Rosamund," 
he stood still for a moment, then, as if impelled
by an irresistible agency, stepped to
her side, lifted the moist tresses from her
cheek, kissed it once again, raised his eyes,
as though praying heaven to bless her as he
did so  and was gone.

VOL. III. L

Chapter XXXIII.

JILTED ! IT'S AN" UGLY WORD."

"What signifies breaking some scores of solemn promises? All
that's of no consequence, you know. To be sure, people will say that
Miss didn't know her own mind, but never mind that. Or, perhaps,
they may be ill-natured enough to hint that the gentleman grew tired
of the lady ; but don't let that fret you."  The Rivals.

"What has happened'? What has been
going on here \ What have you been doing ? "
cried Portland, in burning accents, as he burst
in upon his aunt a few minutes after. " Something
has been done. I met a man going
out  a man with a death-blow written on his
face  as I came in just now. Speak ! what
has Gilbert heard % And who has told
him ? "

"Oh, my dear, it was not my fault. Do
not look at me like that. I have done nothing

 or, at least, I did not mean to do anything
; but by the strangest, the most extraordinary
mischance, he heard "

He heard ! Heard from whom % "

I hardly yet know how it was. But it is

done "

-" Done \ Yes. I should say so. But

how \ Quick  for heaven's sake, be quick,
and tell me how."

He was in the library, waiting, I suppose,
for you. No one had told me he was there ;
or. indeed, that he had come over at all.
I suppose he had not been shown into the
drawing-room, because the doctor was there.
Dr Makin had just told me plainly that he
could do our dear Rosamond no good, unless
he were made acquainted with all her secret
trouble "

What did he know of Eosamund's

secret trouble \ "

A medical eye, Portland "

Confound his medical eye ! He has

had the chance of hearing and seeing, and has

put two and two together. So he informed
Gilbert?"

Indeed, no. It was I who was informing
him "

"Him Making"

I had no choice. When a doctor insists
upon it "

And Gilbert overheard you ? Eut

He could not understand such overhearing.
" I had always thought him the soul
of honour," he muttered.

"It was not Major Gilbert's fault: he
could not avoid it. Unluckily  though I
can hardly say 'unluckily for we must
be thankful "

Well, ma'am, well ? Wait a bit to

be thankful. Be thankful at another time'
cried Portland, beside himself with anxiety,
and the dread that anything had been done
unworthy of their name. " You were in
the act of telling Makin about the engagement
 no doubt with all your own comments
and interpretations. May I ask if

you had proceeded far 1 Had you mentioned
names ? "

I had hardly said a dozen words ; but, unfortunately,
or rather "

Oh, fortunately, or unfortunately 

anything. He heard the fact 1 "

- Yes."

How ? In what words ? Can you remember
% Pray try to remember."

I remember only too well ; for during all
that dreadful silence which followed the disclosure,
I kept repeating them over and over
in my mind, to make sure what it really was
that he had heard "

Well, what were they ? "

I told Dr Makin that he had been right
in supposing a trouble was weighing on Rosamond's
mind, and that this trouble was her
unhappy, unfortunate engagement to Major
Gilbert. I had scarcely named his name,
when I saw by Dr Makin's face that something
was wrong, and there stood Major
Gilbert himself behind me ! Just here,"

pointing to the spot. " I have not left the
room since. I have not dared to stir, for fear
of meeting him again."

How had he allowed you to proceed sofar
? " said Portland, frowning.

It was impossible for him to make known
his presence sooner. He had to get out from
behind the folds of the screen ; and probably
he had not realised the presence of any one,
until after I had begun to speak. Even then,
he would not suppose there could be anything
very private in an opening sentence."

True," said Portland, thoughtfully.

No, he was not to blame," proceeded Lady
Julia, who could afford to do her vanquished foe
such justice. "It took but a few seconds forme
to say what I did, and then  there he was."

I suppose he was terribly shocked and 
and overcome ? "

My dear Portland, I was so frightened I
could not look at him. But his voice  his
tone ." She shuddered at the remembrance.


Did he believe in it ?  I mean, at once ? "
I think so  at first ; and then again he
did not. He hardly seemed to know how
to take it. He was very quiet  very self-restrained;
but every moment he seemed tome
to increase in a kind of dreadful power
as long as he stood over me, piercing me
through and through with those great, hungry,

raging eyes

"There  that will do!" cried Portland,
with a sickened look ; " I know. I can see
them. Good God ! that a woman should have
dared to inflict such anguish !" And he turned
away, his own face working in strong emotion.

"He is gone now," almost whispered Lady
Julia.

Gone  and for ever. I tell you he has
left this house  our house  cursing it in his
heart. He has been fooled and betrayed
among us. Among us he has been led into
a snare, that may be his ruin. What do you
care ? What do you think about the end of all
this ? You women  you don't know how

hard it goes with a man to be held up to pity
among his comrades  to pity, and to ridicule ;
to being talked about, and laughed about, and
told there are others, and instructed to forget,
and bidden to begin again. Jilted ! It's an
ugly word. Can a man pardon it ? I think,
hardly. And he loved her  loved her, and
trusted her. His faith in her was so perfect
that it undid all her reckless attempts to
undeceive him. He could not disbelieve.
What it must have cost him to disbelieve at
last ! "

I am afraid I have not thought enough of
that," said poor Lady Julia, her better nature
asserting itself. " Certainly I ought to remember
how very sad and painful this must
be for poor Major Gilbert."

Sad and painful ! " almost shouted Hart-land
; " I  I  better not speak of it, ma'am :
I doubt if you know what pain is. I did,
once. I don't like to think of that time. We
need not discuss this further, I think : you
had better go to Eosamund ; and I, to  the

devil' he muttered between his teeth, distracted
by shame, and a dim and lurking
sense of guilt.

Lady Julia, only too thankful to be released
from a second interview, little less inferior in
its terror to that which had preceded it, flew
like the wind  or, to be more exact, panted up
the broad staircase as fast as she could  to the
boudoir, and scarcely waiting to have her tap
at the door answered  for not to tap at such
a time would have seemed ungenerous  she
entered, and found her niece, not, as she had
expected, excited, impatient, tearful, ready to
be comforted and caressed, and at heart inexpressibly
relieved  but in a state requiring
immediate physical attention.

Pale as death, spent with weeping, unable
to utter a sound or raise a limb, Eosamund half
lay, half crouched among the cushions of the
little settee, upon which she had sunk when Gilbert
left her. A feeble moan ; a raising of the
heavy eyelids, which fell again instantly ; and
a nerveless, ineffectual effort to stretch forth a

hand which also dropped at once, were the
only indications given of her being conscious
that any one had entered.

She seemed as one in whom all powers
of thought and feeling were for the time
suspended, leaving only an agonised sense
of utter weakness,  as one so bruised, and
crushed, and numb, that the very life itself
was fast ebbing away.

Lady Julia stood still, her own heart turning
cold at the sight.

All inquiry had been answered and expression
checked by that mute, stricken figure,
those swollen eyelids : even now as she looked,
a watery thread trickled clown the cheek, onto
the soft pillow beneath, and was left to dry
itself.

Not even strength to care about that,"
murmured the beholder. " I am well punished.
I little thought that when I gave out she was
so ill before, it was so soon to be the simple
truth. This has half killed her. God,
spare the child I " and with the cry she fell

upon her knees, and prayed as she had never
prayed before.

And Eosamund was very ill.

Day and night succeeded each other, and
week after week likewise, while she still lay
on that bed of sickness, mind and body alike
prostrate, knowing nothing, and caring for
nothing, beyond what passed within the four
walls around her, the dim workings of her
overclouded brain never going beyond the
little events of the sick-room's daily routine,
and all the outer world a blank.

No one ever spoke hardly of Eosamund,
even when her tale came to be told. It was
felt that, however great might have been the
mischief she had wrought, and the wrong she
had inflicted, she had nearly expiated all with
her life.

Let us now return to others.

Gilbert, on passing out into the raw chilly
air of that December morning, with all his
dearest hopes blasted and his future in ruins,
was too much under the stimulus of strong

excitement to give even a passing heed to
anything beyond the exigencies of the immediate
present. By the aid of this spur, he
was enabled, without hesitation, to proceed
upon what his clear resolute mind decided
must be done on the instant, and allowing
himself no time either for doubts or repentance,
he strode along towards King's Common
at a pace which brought him there, before it
seemed that he had well started on his way.

Mr Liscard was out  but the young ladies
were at home. They were going in to
luncheon.

Luncheon ! A faint pang just made itself
felt at the word. Luncheon is a cold and
awkward meal, contrasting unfavourably with
the cosy tea, or the glowing, genial dinner, 
but it had suited his military arrangements
to come over at that hour, and with it was
connected as much or more than with anything
else, the dead past.

To go in now as before ! To sit in the
accustomed spot ! To look round the accustomed

room, and mark all the old arrangements
and habits, and feel that he was seeing
these for the last time, and that even now,
even while there, it was another than the
Frederick Gilbert, who had been wont to fill
that place, who was present at this time !
And he himself  where was he %

Pulling himself together as well as he could,
he looked at the footman who had answered
his summons, wondering if aught amiss in
his speech, or appearance, had been visible ;
and repeated the word " Luncheon ? " as
an excuse for taking a moment's time to
think. Could he endure it, and go through
with it?

The gong has just sounded, sir."
No one else is there, you say 1 "
No one but the young ladies, sir," and the
man stood aside with so evident an expectation,
such an air of "It is all right. You are
one of us. Pray be quick," that it was
irresistible.

Loathsome as was the vision of food, and

noise, and talk, and laughter, the ordeal must
be gone through ; and it began, as might
have been foreseen, with the sisters' first
sight of his face. They sprang forward.

Frederick ! What is wrong ? What is
the matter ? Why do you look like that \ "

He kissed them both.

Now, look here," he said, taking a firm,
determined grip of each one's hand  "look
here. Listen. There is something wrong.
There is something the matter. But I can't
tell you what, till afterwards ; and do not say
one word about it till I can. Don't remark
upon me  nor take notice of anything  nor
ask a question. We must come in now ;
and keep still before the servants. Now, remember,"
and he unlocked their hands. " You
will know soon enough," he added, under his
breath.

One thing, brother, only one," implored
Emily. " Rosamond ? Is it about her \ "

Yes." His mouth shut as if it were a
vice ; and he turned on his heel, and walked

through the open door into the dining-room,
leaving them to follow.

"She must be worse, and the marriage is
put off, I suppose," whispered the one, to the
other. " I know he has been there. He was
to see her to-day. Poor Frederick, he seems
regularly to feel it."

"And after all, it is no great matter; it is
all very nice as it is," nodded back the other.

They saw that Frederick poured himself out
a glass of wine, and suffered food to be placed
before him, and made a feint of eating for as
honors the servants remained in the room, 
but it took little observation to perceive that
no morsel in reality crossed his lips ; and, as
they further noted that from time to time he
glanced impatiently at their plates, and then
at the clock, they understood to hasten their
own proceedings to a close.

Are you ready 1 " he asked, perceiving
this.

Yes, brother," replied both, simultaneously.

"That's well. We shall just do it," taking

out his watch, and comparing it with the
timepiece in front of him. " Yes, we have
half an hour. I suppose they can bring a
carriage round in half an hour."

A carriage has been ordered for half-past
two, as it is," said Henrietta. " We are going
in to Longminster to fetch Mr Liscard ; and
we were to start early, in order to have the
whole afternoon before us."

For Mr Liscard is going to take us a long
delightful drive," added Emily, with animation,
" through a part of the country we have
never seen before."

At what time did you say % When was
there a carriage ordered ? " demanded Gilbert,
waving aside with a frown the superfluous
communication. " At what o'clock 1 "

At half-past two."

"That will do ; but what carriage was it to
be ? It must hold four."

"The mail-phaeton, if the weather kept
clear."

It is clear," glancing out ; " we must have

the phaeton. But it must be punctually hereat
the time, or as soon as we can get it now,"
and he rang the bell.

If we are not going for Mr Liscard,
brother," suggested Emily, " ought not someone
to meet him and tell him so 1 He expects
us, and will wait "

 " The phaeton can go on after it drops

you at the station ; I will take it on myself."

At the station ? "

They had not anticipated this : they had
severally conjectured, in the brief time given
them for conjecture, that something was amiss
at the Abbey, and that they had been sent for
thither,  but they were altogether thrown outby
this new revelation. They now glanced
mutely at each other, while Gilbert, in curt,
imperative tones, gave the orders ; and on
his next motioning them in silence towards
the room they had quitted, he was obeyed
with ever-growing uneasiness. His set face,
the stern, forbidding air, so unlike the gay
spirits which usually characterised their light-vol.

III. m

hearted brother, brought an increasing conviction
that they stood on the brink of a precipice
from which he had already plunged.

What are we now to do, Frederick ? " inquired
the elder, at last ; " shall we " and

she looked for commands.

"Yes, you must get yourselves ready, and
as quickly as you can. But wait  just a
moment first ; " he stopped, then began again,
and was again unable to proceed.

Look here," he said at last, in a strained,
husky undertone ; "it is of no use, I can't
do it. I meant to tell you all, but I find I
can't  yet. You must not mind. You must
do as I bid you without knowing why, for
the present. I think you would  you will,
when you know what I  what we all have
to bear."

"Yes, brother." And they came close to
him at once.

He looked at one, and then at the other ;
but they knew that he hardly saw their faces
that he was lost in something different.

This is what you have to do," he said, presently.
" I know it is hard upon you, but try
not to mind. Go up-stairs and put on your
things for a journey. You are going home today.
You are going by the three o'clock train."

Both uttered an ejaculation.

You would not yourselves wish to stay, if
you did but know," muttered Gilbert. " Now
listen. You are going straight home, as I
said. You will tell our father and mother
that I am writing to explain why. I will
write by this evening's post "

But Frederick "

"Well?"

Our luggage. Our trunks cannot be
packed in the time."

They must be sent after you. Leave
word. Drop a pencil line to Catharine."

But what are we to say ? What reason
are we to give ? " The two doleful voices
roused a sense of irritation in their listener, to
whom it seemed as if they could have nothing
to grieve for, and might have spared him.

You have nothing to do with reasons' he
replied, sharply. " I will myself see Mr Lis-card,
and give him the true one. But stay,"
he added, after a second's reflection ; " for the
look of the thing, tell Catharine that you were
called home suddenly, and had no time to say
1 Good-bye.' By the way, where is she today
? " suddenly missing her.

Miss Penrose has a sort of examination,
and gives prizes for the half-year, and I believe
Catharine hoped to get one. She did not wish
to miss it "

Well, well, never mind. It was lucky it
happened so, that's all. Now be quick, and "
here he once more looked fixedly at each, 
"and be silent. Do not be overheard talking
and conjecturing. Walls have ears." And he
flung himself into a new attitude, as though
stung by a sudden recollection.

They took their departure.

Emily, Emily, what is it? What can it
be ? Oh, Em, I am so sorry ; it is too horrible.
To be packed off like this, just when we were

so happy, and were having such a delightful,
delightful time ! And Frederick seemed as
pleased as we, only last night, and laughed at
you about  you know whom. It is too bad.
I shall travel in my best hat  I shan't
go away a dowdy from a place like this. . . .
Oh dear, oh dear, to be going away at all ! "

It will make Mr Liscard very angry," said
Emily, sitting gloomily down to lace her boots.
I should not in the least wonder if he were to
send after us, and bring us back. If only he
had not been away from home to-day ! "

Do you really mean that ? " cried Etta,
brightening with the idea. " Why, then, we
need not hurry about the luggage. Em, let
us say nothing about it. Forget it, you know.
Then we could just slip quietly back again, as
if nothing had happened."

I think we must mention it. Frederick is
sure to ask if we have, or not. Frederick
never overlooks anything, and we must do
what he says, Etta, whether we like it or not.
But I can say,"  scribbling as fast as she

could,  " I can say that it does not signify
about sending it for a day or two, as we have
plenty of things at home, and do not want to
trouble any one. There, that will give us a
little more time. And if it be as I suppose,
that Eosamund is in for a long illness, and
that people have been disagreeable, and telling
Frederick that it is not nice for us to stay on
here, and have made him declare in a huff that
we shall go home, why, if he had only not
been in such a hurry, we could soon have put
things straight. Mr Liscard would not have
heard of our going. He needs us all the more
if Rosamund is going to be ill, and stop on at
the Abbey. And now that we have got Catharine,
and have made all proper   "

Only listen to that dear old sheep-bell ! "
cried Etta, running to the window, and opening
it. " Oh, to think that perhaps we are never
to hear it again ! And I do love this view of
the lovely park, with its great trees, and the
deer, and the beautiful, broad avenue. I had
got to feel quite at home here, hadn't you ?

And I am sure I had never thought I should.
And I don't mind the men-servants a bit, now
that I am used to them  nor all the grandeur.
Oh, how happy we were only an hour ago,
planning out every day this week, and  oh,
Em, the Waterfields  what are we to do
about the Waterfields?"

We must leave cards to be sent," said
Em, profoundly. " Mr Liscard will see toit,
I am sure."

You always think first of Mr Liscard,"
observed her sister, with a smile. " I declare,
Em, I wonder whether our going like this
can possibly have anything to do with My
Liscard."

Nonsense ! " said Emily, who had already
been wondering the same thing. " But I am
very sure he will be vexed about it," she
added, " and I do think he ought to have
been told. There  that's my brooch pin
gone ! I knew it was loose yesterday. And
where are a pair of gloves 1 All our things
are in such a muddle. I had meant to tidy

them up only to-day. We never seemed to have
a moment when we came in to put things by,
and I do think Rosamond's maid might have
helped us more than she has done." The truth
being that Rosamond's maid had not helped
at all. The pampered domestics of King's
Common, accustomed to judge of every oneby
the standard of their late mistress, had
speedily left the Miss Gilberts to shift for
themselves, as soon as they found that their
first formal tenders of assistance had been rejected.
Young ladies who brought no maid,
and dressed their own hair, could do anything.

I daresay half our things won't come,"
quoth Henrietta, now ; " I don't at all like
leaving them."

Emily felt as if she hardly cared whether
they came or not ; and the first stroke on
the gong, telling of the carriage being round,
struck on her ear as the knell of doom. They
hurried down, and found their brother in the
hall. " Have you left any money ? " he said,
aside.

They had not thought of it.

Here,"  he took some gold pieces from
his purse. " Give these : you know best
how. Look sharp."

Brother ! Sovereigns ! "

Give them, I say. No, stop, there is
no time to lose. Give them to Badeley
here, and ask him to see they go to the
right persons."

She did so, and returned. Henrietta was
already in the carriage.

Get in, quick," said her brother, impatiently,
and was by her side on the instant,
Etta having humbly taken the back seat.

To the Abbey, sir ? "

To the station."

The sisters glanced at him. He bit his
nether lip as he spoke. He was looking
straight in front. His arms were folded.

There was something so stern, so hopeless
in his air, a resolution so immovable in his
countenance, that involuntarily they shrank
and quailed before it.

He sat, an iron figure, with front of adamant,
and eyes deep-set and burning beneath lowered
brows, as one who neither sees nor hears aught
of the passing scene ;  and beholding him thus,
they themselves scarce durst move or breathe,
realising more and more that they were ina
presence all unknown before  the presence
of an awful sorrow.

CHAPTER XXXIV.

Garland UNLIKE HIMSELF.

"0 Love! tormentor! fiend!  whose influence, like the moon's,
acting on men of dull souls, makes idiots of them, but meeting subtler
spirits, urges sensibility to madness."  Sheridan.

Within four - and - twenty hours after the
events recorded in the last chapter had taken
place, every busy tongue in and about the two
great houses of the neighbourhood was ringing
with its own version of them.

Some facts were beyond dispute.

Rosamund Liscard was lying dangerously
ill at the Abbey, and Major Gilbert's sisters
had departed from King's Common in a
mighty hurry; but what was the connection
between these, or whether there were any
connection at all, was enough of a mystery
to be delightful and provoking.

It was all very well for the young ladies to
give out that they had been summoned home
unexpectedly. Mr Liscard's household could
testify that no summons had come through
any other medium than that of their brother
the major (and the major had certainly been
the person to spirit off the two), but neither
he nor they had dropped a hint of bad news,
sudden illness, accident, or any one of the
usual causes of a hasty exit.

Of course the family might have chosen to
keep their own counsel. There might have
been ill tidings after all ; and if it had been
so, and if, on hearing these, Miss Liscard had
been taken worse, and her future sisters-in-law
obliged to flee, nothing more could be said.
But the gossips shook their heads, and knew
better.

No, no ; more than that lay beneath the
surface. And the first idea that naturally
presented itself was that Rosamund's papa had
been brought to book for his late high misdemeanours.
The old gentleman had been

enjoying himself far too much, and the young
lady had got wind of it. Probably, then, she
had taxed her lover with his sisters' indiscretions,
and he, in wrath, had swept them off to
satisfy her.

His gloomy brow, the severity of his manner
towards them, and their frightened, cowering
obedience under it, were all attested to ; and
the major, who was as popular as his sisters
were the reverse, was allowed to have done
the right thing  no second mistress being
desired at King's Common.

The major, then, they concluded, did not
choose to have his family talked about ; and
as the members of it now under discussion
had not known how to behave themselves, it
had been " to the right about face " with them.

And to be sure, said one and all, it served
the misses right, and the old gentleman too.
Say he did intend to have another wife one of
these days, no one would have gainsaid him,
if only he had waited a reasonable time and
chosen a reasonable lady.

Lady Caroline had not been beloved, and
it would have seemed only a righteous retribution,
had a successor to her been found at the
expiration of a twelvemonth ; but the indecent
haste with which the widower had suffered
himself to be beguiled from his seclusion was
one offence, and his having found a siren in
Miss Emily Gilbert was another.

Miss Rosamond's lover was all very well : he
was major of his regiment, and for the time
being in command of it ; and the regiment was
stationed hard by. Every now and then he
might be seen riding out with his men, a
gallant, handsome fellow, with a fine, authoritative
air. He cut a dash in his tandem dogcart,
kept a couple of smart grooms, and spent
his money like a gentleman. To crown all,
he had saved Billy Barley's life, at the risk of
his own.

Altogether he had been regarded with complacency
as a suitor even for Lady Caroline's
daughter, and her ladyship had been stigmatised
as haughty and arrogant, and quite

beyond bearing with her airs and her pride,
because she had not lent herself to the general
sentiment.

But Major Gilbert was one person, and his
younger sister was another.

For her was no accompaniment of military
grandeur and beat of drum : for her no red-coated
orderly would dash over with important
despatch, or telegram; nor could she handle
dexterously a pair of frisking thorough-bred.
To be sure, a French abigail, and a silver-mounted
dressing-case might have done something
towards retrieving Emily's credit; but
the sisters had been brought up plainly, and,
wealthy as the family was, did not know what
feminine luxury meant. It was their code
that Frederick must have this and that 
great, gilt monograms on his toilet accoutrements,
and handsome fittings to his travelling-bag
;  but none of the girls whom they knew
indulged in anything better than they had
themselves, and they were content to be on
the same level. Accordingly, although their

outfit for the much-talked-of visit had been
selected with care, and contained many new
and expensive articles of dress, it was deficient
in those trifling accompaniments which are
the delight of ladies'-maids and housemaids.
Neither embossed silver nor ivory, neither
satin sachet nor embroidered shoe-bag, was
there to be seen. " Not a bit o' lace nowhere,"
whispered one saucy minx to another
behind-backs, " and only the meanest of edging
! La ! they ain't nothing."

All of this was told down-stairs, and downstairs
told outside, and outside spread itself to
right and to left ; and the outcome of it all was,
that Mr Liscard was felt to be lowering the
standard of the whole establishment, by paying
court to a lady who brushed her hair with a
bone-handled brush.

To have had the popular voice with him, he
should have selected the daughter of a noble
house  or at least of an old county family 
and have gone gradually and soberly to work.
But instead, he had jumped up all of a sudden,

like a jack-in-the-box, banged the proprieties
about their ears, and gone for the first pretty,
simpering pair of lips that said a civil word to
him. Shame upon him, the silly old man !

There could be no doubt as to his vexation
over the hasty finish put to his felicity.

He had come home from Longminster,
apparently aware of what had happened ;
indeed the groom attested to his having had a
meeting with Major Gilbert in the town  and
he had clearly been very much put out, indeed
quite nonplussed, by it. Miss Catharine's
company at dinner had been declined ; and
she had been further informed, in terms that
had admitted of no discussion, that her presence
for the rest of the evening could also be
dispensed with. He had not himself gone into
the drawing-room. He had retreated, as he
had been wont to do of old when worsted in a
fight, to his library and his books, and coffee
had been served to him there.

Presently the village doctor had joined
him ; and the increased illness of Lady

VOL. III. N

Julia's charge had been announced to Mrs
Ossory, and Mrs Ossory had been requested
to attend to divers directions, and had herself
had a word with Dr Makin, which had
troubled the good soul not a little.

But for all that, every one knew that
Rosamund had not been the thought uppermost
in her father's miucl upon his return
from Longminster, and that although her
state might now be as alarming as was given
out, he had not then known it to be so.

To himself, indeed, it is to be feared,
the attached parent almost went the length
of allowing that his daughter's illness was
opportune.

It will stop people's tongues for a time,"
he reflected, " and save a vast amount of exposure
and scandal. She has been a great
fool. Gilbert would have made her an excellent
husband ; he has a good fortune, and
the family is highly respectable. If she fancied
him once, what possessed her not to goon
fancying him? Is there any chance of

patching up the affair, I wonder % No ; for
she has her mother's own temper. Besides
which, he wont give her the chance. I
never knew such a piece of folly in my life.
All done in a hour ! All made an end of,
without giving one time to put in a word !
If poor Caroline had been alive, neither of
them would have dared to go up and down,
backwards and forwards, like this. She,
poor woman, always disliked the match, and
tried to prevent it  but I knew the world
better. I knew that Eosamund might have
gone farther and fared worse. Besides, husbands
are not rife in these days, and it does
not do to pick and choose. It was nothing
but Caroline's ridiculous fancy about Hart-land
that made her object, moreover. She
could not see that Portland is not a marrying
man, or at least will not be a marrying
man for many a long year. He will wait till
he can lay hold of an heiress, and free himself
from Julia's trammels" (to him Lady Julia's
plan had never been confided)  " that's what

Portland will do. He is never dreaming of
one of our girls. Rosamond had the sense
to see as much, and take up with a good-looking
fellow who could marry her off-hand,
and be indebted to no one. Nice, bright girls
those sisters of his, too. I was just beginning
to feel a little more cheerful, and the
house to be a little less doleful, and we might
have got along very pleasantly as we were,
if Rosamund had only held her tongue. Even
if she did mean to cast him off in the long-run,
she need not have been in such a precious
hurry about it. She might have waited
till she was better. She might have thought
about me. But no ; it is self, self, self all
round. No one, not even my own daughter,
thinks of me. And the upshot is, that here
am I, stranded afresh, with no one to talk to,
no one to have my dinner with, no music, no
anything! Dr Makin says Rosamund is ill.
She may well be ill. She has made herself
ill. Julia is no more good as a nurse and
guardian than a potato-stalk. I should not

wonder if the old goose were at the bottom of
it all, either. I don't fancy she cared for Gilbert
much more than Caroline did. Between
them, they have made a mess of the whole business.
All concluded without my sanction, without
even any reference to me ! I  I  upon my
word, if this is going to be the way in future,

I might almost  almost as well " and he

just stopped short of saying, " I might almost
as well have Lady Caroline back again."

And is it really true what I hear, Mr
Stoneby ? " inquired Mrs Wakefield, on meeting
the rector a few days afterwards ; "is the
engagement really at an end ? "

I am afraid so," said he. After all that
he had seen, supplemented by all that he had
been told, " afraid " was hardly the right word ;
but how seldom can one use the right word !
It stands in the background, and a cat's-paw
answers the purpose.

Do you know anything about it?" pursued
the lady, with the directness of the family
friend.

I believe that it was felt to have been
entered into hastily, and it has come to as
hasty a conclusion."

It is on her side that it is broken off, of
course ? "

On hers, yes."

I thought not on his. I never saw a man
more in love, in my life, than he was beforehand.
I have not seen them together since.
But I could fancy that, on closer acquaintance,
he would not altogether suit the family. And
Eosamund is capricious."

She has felt it deeply."

So she ought, Mr Stoneby."

Oh  yes  of course."

She has jilted him, you know, explain it
as you will," said Mrs Wakefield, who was on
easy terms with her clergyman ; " that is the
plain English word."

I know," said Jack, quietly.

Her illness is really the best thing for her
reputation, poor child," continued Mrs Water-field,
softening. " It has been an unfortunate

affair ; and I thought Lady Caroline,  but, to
be sure, Lady Caroline knew nothing about her
children. Eosamund was an unknown personage
to her mother  I always said so. Lady
Caroline used to hint that I had my girls too
much about me, made too much of them as
companions, and gave them too much liberty ;
but one thing I know, no daughter of mine
would ever get as intimate with any acquaintance,
as Eosamund Liscard did with Major
Gilbert, without my knowledge and permission.
Why, Lady Caroline's head was in the clouds,
while he was paying her child the most open
attentions beneath her very nose ! Then, when
she did at last become aware of what every one
else in the neighbourhood had known ages before,
she thought she had nothing to do but to
put her foot down on the affair to extinguish
it ! She was, of all the women I ever knew,
the most injudicious," concluded the speaker,
with intense conviction.

I think she was, Mrs Wakefield ; and her
daughter now suffers for it."

And what does the father say ? "

"He is considerably put out," said Jack,
with a faint twinkle in his eye.

Put out, is he % " and the lady noted the
twinkle, and responded to it. ' : Put out ?
Not distressed, nor anxious, nor "

Mrs Wakefield, you know Mr Lis-card."


Very well indeed, Mr Stoneby. That is, I
thought I did once ; but I am told  people do
say that there is a new Mr Liscard beginning
to rise out of the ashes of the old one, and
with him I am certainly unacquainted. If
this upset of the family arrangements has put
an end to the novel order of things at King's
Common, no wonder he is 'put out"

"You mean his driving the Miss Gilberts
about ? "

"And playing his flute to them  and 
and other things."

They are bright, talkative, musical girls,
you see, Mrs Wakefield."

I never saw them but the once," responded

she, drily. " Talkative they were  the rest I
must take on credit. "

At any rate, they are gone now."
And gone in a hurry, I hear. Now, Mr
Stoneby, I respect your reticence, and you are
quite right not to tell me more than I have
heard already,  but do not expect me to
suppose that you, Lord Portland's intimate
friend, do not know a great deal more of
this matter than you choose to discuss. I
daresay I ought not to be inquisitive, but " 
with a smile  " can a woman help it ? And
I do love Rosamond," added the speaker, who
was warm-hearted after a fashion, " and I am
truly grieved she is ill, and truly rejoice that
she is well out of her engagement to Major
Gilbert. I wonder now whether I ought to
leave a card and inquiry at the Abbey ? Perhaps
Julia would as soon I did not ; perhaps
she would rather not be troubled with me just
now. And living four miles off, we need not

be supposed to know just yet. Still " and

she looked at Jack for inspiration.

He had none to offer.

I daresay I should best show my goodwill
and affection by staying away, the case being
so very peculiar," concluded Mrs Waterfall.
If I am to do to others as I would that they
should do to me, I shall certainly not go near
the place. What do you think % "

He thought he wished that he could do the
like himself. If he could only have reflected
as comfortably that he also might show his
affection and goodwill best by staying away,
how thankful he would have been !

He had not once met nor spoken to Hart-land
since their last never-to-be-forgotten interview.
They had avoided each other by
tacit, mutual consent, and were alike aware
of having done so. It was Clementina who
had been sent for to hear in confidence from
Lady Julia of Major Gilbert's dismissal and
Rosamund's increased illness,  and at first her
brother had understood that he was to take
no notice, and pursue his way as though
nothing had happened.

But the confidence was now four days old,
and he felt that as rector of the parish, living
within half a mile of the Abbey, he could not
with decency absent himself longer for the sake
of appearances. He need not ask to be admitted.
An inquiry at the door would serve all
purposes ; and should Lord Portland see him,
and wish to avoid him, he himself would make
escape for any one easy, by looking neither to
right nor to left either on his way thither or
on his return.

If I had had any plausible pretext for not
coming," muttered Jack, as with leaden foot he
slowly moved up to the front door, "I should
never have set a foot within the precincts.
I hate seeming to push forward, and be the
first to hear the news, and all that sort of
thing. Evidently Portland does not want to
see me "

Come along," said Portland's voice behind
him, " come along. I thought you would be
up to-day. Come in. I am at home, if no
one else is."

I did not expect to see any one."

You will not  excepting me."

Lady Julia is engaged, I suppose 1 "

She is in  my cousin's room."

And how  tell me truly, Portland  how
is she ? " At once he saw that he was to
be allowed to speak, to inquire, and to be
frank.

She is almost as ill as she can be' said
Portland.

And you can say it so ! Are you serious ?
You cannot be serious. Can you possibly
say that, and ? "

I feel as if I could say anything."

His friend glanced at him. " I think you
are ill too," he said.

I am not. I wish I were."

You are very unlike yourself, and no wonder.
After all you have gone through "

All I have gone through ! For heaven's
sake, let us have none of that ! " cried Hart-land,
with a harsh laugh. "Your pardon,
Jack ; but don't let me hear you say that

again. / have 'gone through ' nothing. /
have not been dissected for a woman's amusement,
and made sport of for her vanity. /
have not "

No, to be sure ; no, I was wrong : my
dear old fellow," said Stoneby, beginning to
perceive what he had to do,  " my dear Hart-land,
you are quite right. But you are not
going to say things now, for which you will be
sorry presently "

Why not ? Why should I not say

them ? We have all taken leave to say anything
up here nowadays, don't you know ?
Rosamond says one thing one day, and another

the next. She "

"You tell me she is very ill," said

Stoneby, slipping his arm through his friend's.
When people are ill, you know, Portland,
one must be patient and gentle with them.
You would not be unkind to  to your

cousin "

Oh, no  oh dear, no  not for worlds.
That is her privilege. She "

Portland, this is unmanly and cowardly.
You would not further bruise a crushed
leaf "

Bah ! Don't preach, Jack."

Stoneby was silent. He was not offended,
but he was startled, inexpressibly startled :
he perceived more and more clearly, by every
word uttered, that the speaker was saying
that for which he was at the moment scarcely
accountable, that his mental condition was
unhinged and overwrought, and that he was
in no fit state to be argued with, or irritated
even by a calm dissent. More, he ought not
to be trusted by himself. At such a crisis,
tact, patience, and infinite sympathy were
imperative, and here had he been grudging,
or at all events withholding, all three. His
hanging back during the past four days
seemed now the height of selfishness ;  and
reflecting that during that time, a time when
sympathy and beguilement had been most
needed, his friend had been bereft even of
Lady Julia to talk to  for she had been almost

wholly engrossed by the sick-room  he could
only be thankful that at least he had not
suffered himself to delay another day.

"If I am not to be allowed to speak," proceeded
Portland, sullenly

Speak as much as ever you will  as

much as ever you please  only let us be alone
and unheard' whispered Stoneby, for they were
now crossing the hall. " But you are excited,
and your voice travels farther than you are
aware of," in an undertone. " Why should
we go there ? " as his host turned the handle
of the drawing-room door ; " that is too publica
place, is it not ? Can't we go and sit in the

library "

The library ! " echoed Portland, starting
back with an oath. " The library ! Don't
you know what happened there ? Don't you
know a spectre haunts the place ? I tell you
that if I went in now, I should see him
standing before me  she told me where he
stood, and how he looked  and, God !
what he heard ! She will tell you too, if

you ask her. Women can tell anything.
She thought it must have been very 'sad
and painful ' for him ! She was really ' very
sorry about it.' Faugh ! She would have
said the same if he had cut his little finger.
Oh that it should have come about thus !
That no one had even the face to go openly
to the poor wretch, and say ' There, take that,'
and strike him down in front ! That it should
have been dribbled out through the leaking of
a careless tongue ! Let fall as a bit of news !
Something dropped by the way ! Yes,  come
along, come along, and we'll go somewhere
else and be alone, but not "  pushing roughly
past  "not in by that door."

CHAPTER XXXV.

PROMISE THAT YOU WILL BUT WAIT.

Above thy head, through rifted clouds, there shines
A glorious star. Be patient. Trust thy star."

The Spanish Student.

A few hours later on the same day saw Mr
Stoneby seeking admission at Major Gilbert's
quarters at Lougminster. He was admitted,
although he could perceive that Gilbert came
forward with an effort, that he was hurried
and nervous, and evidently received with reluctance
a visitor whom it was impossible to
avoid.

For this, however, Jack had been prepared,
well aware that the sight of any one connected
either with the Abbey or King's Common

vol. in. o

could be no agreeable one to the unfortunate
soldier, and he resolved to lose no time in extenuation
of a visit so untimely.

You are busy 1 " he began, glancing round.

Packing up," said Gilbert, succinctly. " I
am going on leave."

So I see. I ought not to have intruded
at such a late hour, but I trust  I am sure
that you will pardon me when I am able to
explain my business "

Oh, certainly. Sit down, Mr Stoneby,"
and there was another obvious effort to be
disengaged and courteous. " You won't mind
if I go on with my work," emptying a drawer
which stood open. " I always see to these
things myself; and as I have given up the

rooms " he stopped and pretended to have

lost an article, for the admission was inadvertent,
and might have caused surprise.

When you want a thing done, do it yourself,
is your motto ? I followed it to-night
when I came here," said his visitor, with a
faint smile. "The fact is, Major Gilbert, I am

anxious about a parishioner of mine, who is in

great trouble "

In trouble, is he ? Poor devil !

What is it ? A broken leg 1 Went to pay ?

Or what \ "

No. His trouble is not of that sort."
"It is of a sort that a fiver or a tenner will

heal, anyway ? "
I am afraid not."
Not indeed ? "

It is not money he is in need of."
Amazing ! I thought it was always money

a poor man was in need of."

But my parishioner is not a poor man."
Eh ? oh ! . . . It is not one of my fellows

who has been getting into mischief over

there, is it?" said Gilbert, sharply. "And

you are come to beg him off? I hope not.

I "

"No, you are wrong again. And your
time is too valuable to be spent in guessing
riddles. It is on Lord Portland's account
I am come."

At the name Gilbert's face changed, and his
colour rose.

Oh," he said, shortly, " I thought you said
8 a parishioner ' ? Well, he is that, of course,
but it misled me. But are you sure that you
have any message from Lord Hartlaud to me ?
I think there must be some mistake. I hardly
think he would send one," with an emphasis
that was instantly intelligible. " Had Lord
Portland had anything to say, surely he
would have come in his own person to say it,"

He did not send me, nor does he know
I am come here ; but T have sufficient trust
in your generosity to feel confident that you
would have blamed me had I hung back."

Gilbert inclined his head; he had ceased
to touch a thing from the moment Portland's
name had been pronounced.

It would be useless for me to affect ignorance
of what has happened this week," said
the young clergyman, quietly. " I know, of
course, all. I have come straight from the
Abbey, Major Gilbert. Lord Portland is

nearly beside himself with grief and indignation,
and the most vehement remorse "

Remorse ! " said Gilbert, starting.

"Remorse, did you say? But"  and he
regarded the speaker with keenly searching
eyes  "but I was not aware that Lord Hart-land
had any cause for remorse," he added,
slowly.

On my word as a Christian gentleman, he
has none," said his companion, raising his hand
to enforce the asseveration, " but he thinks he
has. He thinks that what took place might
have been prevented if he "

Absurd," said Gilbert. " I am obliged to
him, but as if anything he could have said or
done could have influenced my affairs ! My
affairs are my own "

Hear me out. You are on the wrong
track. Portland does not presume to think
he could have done or undone any of this 
this  what I mean, what really preys on his
mind is that you should have been  that she
should have allowed you "

-"No need to mention her," said Gilbert,

sternly.

The fact is," said poor Stoneby, who
began to perceive how difficult his task was
likely to prove, and who had as yet got no
nearer his real object,  "the fact is, that she
is so seriously ill, his anxiety for her has
completely unhinged him "

Anxiety for her ! I begin to understand.

And his ' vehement remorse ' too !
But I was told  Eosamund herself told me, 
no, she did not tell me, but her aunt did, and
she endorsed it,  that Portland was nothing
to her. I was solemnly assured "

He is nothing to her  but  but she

is all the world to him."

Gilbert fell back, and his hand dropped by
his side.

"Yes, Major Gilbert, that is it; that is
God's truth about Portland. His cousin
knows it not  no one knows it but myself
but it is so. He has buried his secret in
his own breast."

"Then, Mr Stoneby, kindly tell me this.
What is the remorse for ? And with what
does your friend reproach himself 1 M demanded
Gilbert, folding his arms, and leaning
across a small table, while he fixed his
eyes, burning like coals of fire, upon his
companion. " Surely he had as good a right
as I to enter the lists % The lists were free
to all."

"I am afraid' said Stoneby, reluctantly,

"that it was not until after you "

Ha ! I see. But still, unless he played

me false "

"That he did not."

"Then what, in the name of heaven, does
he reproach himself for ? "

He thinks he 'had no right to love
her."

"That is folly. He had a right to love

as much as he chose, so lone as Can

you swear that he never gave her any reason
to suppose it ? That he never sought to
undermine me ? Never tempted her away

from me ? Never let her know that a
coronet awaited her acceptance "

"Never,  before heaven I swear it,

Major Gilbert,  never ! "

How do you know, Mr Stoneby ? " said
Gilbert, contemptuously. " Was Portland
likely to tell you ? You are his father confessor,
I daresay ; but people do keep back
little things, trifles, even at confession, they
say; and a man in love " he stopped.

Shall I tell you how I know ? " said
Stoneby, rising and standing before him.
When a man talks of himself and of you
as Portland has done to me this day,  when
he refuses even to look upon the place
whereon you stood that morning,  when
he almost curses the two women, whom he
loves best in the world, for what they have
done,  and curses himself again for that which
he has not done,  do you think that such
a man, at such a time, would cheat me
with a lie?"

You mean that he is unnerved," said

Gilbert, but it was evident that he was
more struck than he chose to own. " I
should not have supposed Lord Portland
would have been so easily shaken. And
if it be as you say, that he has nothing on
his conscience, he can surely afford to "

A man who had had something on his
conscience would not, I think, have been
half so deeply moved," replied Stoneby. " No
one capable of playing another false, would
view the idea with the horror Portland
does. You smile ? Major Gilbert, T know
and love Lord Portland as a brother. I
could answer for him as I could for no other
living man. It is because he is so upright,
honourable "

Spare me the recital of his virtues," said
Gilbert, drily. " I have a regard for Lord
Portland, and I am glad to find his conduct
does not necessitate its withdrawal, since,"

and he passed his hand across his brow,

"since I am willing to take your word
that it is so. But an eulogium on a rival is

hardly  if you will excuse my saying so  is
not quite in taste at the present moment.
You say he loves his cousin,"  he turned
away his head  "in time she will love him
too," he added, to himself.

Stoneby was silenced.

You said something about some one being
ill," continued Gilbert, returning to his papers,
and affecting to recommence arranging them ;
"it is not serious, not dangerous, I hope? "

"It is very serious. Until yesterday evening,
I believe, it was thought dangerous."

"Who is with her? Who attends her?
Not only that "

A consulting physician came down from
London yesterday, and he will see her again
tomorrow."

Is it as bad as that ? " said Gilbert, in a
lowered tone. " I had not heard. I  to be
sure I did hear she had been worse, but I
thought, I fancied it was as it had been before,
made more of than the reality warranted."

At any rate there is no exaggeration now,"

said Mr Stoney, in answer to the bitter smile
which accompanied the words ; and by which
he could perceive that the cause of the exaggeration
had been now divined. " They hope
the most critical period is past, but a relapse
would be most certainly fatal."

Is it brain fever  or what ? "

"Of that nature."

"I am going abroad," said Gilbert, after a
pause. " I start to-night. But my sisters are
here is their address," writing it hastily
down. " I should be grateful if you would
send me a single line now and again, which
they could forward. I am ashamed to trouble
you

Trouble ! " said Jack Stoneby, with

emotion. "Major Gilbert, I have not dared
I do not dare to intrude upon your sorrow,

but " and he held out his hand with a look

that supplied the rest.

Thanks," said the soldier, briefly.

The two men faced each other for a moment
as their hands met, but Gilbert did not then

know that here was another bound to him by
that same secret link wherewith Portland had
been. " May I hope to be pardoned coming
to-night % " said Jack, very humbly. It was
hardly night, but the darkness of December at
six o'clock made the term seem appropriate.

Certainly. I respect a man who does
what he conceives to be his duty. Even
though I do not quite understand your object,
I allow, Mr Stoneby."

I hoped for a word  a message of confidence
 something to enable my friend to take
a less distorted view of his own conduct. If
he goes on brooding over every unhappy circumstance,
and encouraging his own morbid
fancies, I cannot answer for the consequences.
He is in a strange state, and my mind misgave
me when I left him just now. Major Gilbert,
if anything were to happen to Lord Portland,
you would never forgive yourself if you had
refused to send what I now ask for  a single
kind, forgiving, believing word."

Gilbert winced, and drew his brows together.

" A kind word is easily spoken," he
said, " and I forgive him, as I hope to be forgiven
; but,"  and he moved uneasily,  " it is
hard to be called upon to place implicit faith
in a friend who  who is more fortunate than
yourself."

It is hard. God bless you for trying todo
it. It is so hard, that if I did not myself
believe heart and soul in Portland's honour,
I could never ask it of you. But I know him
better than he knows himself. I know what
it will be to him to have to lie under this
stigma in your eyes "

Does he expect to marry her ? " said

Gilbert, abruptly.

He says he will never ask her."

"But you think ?"

I think that unless you say something
now to clear him in his own sight, he
will hold to this resolution."

I am to acquit Lord Portland in order to
leave him free to do the thing whereof he is
acquitted ? "

You are to free him from a state of unreal
misery aud self-deception, because you are a
just man," said Stoneby, steadily. "You are
to lift a burden off his back, because it has no
right to be there. No one but you can perform
this labour of love, and as God's minister,
I call on you to do it. I tell you that Lord
Portland is suffering from an overstrained
sense of his share in your wrongs. His share !
No share in that wrong accrues to him anymore
than it does  to me," suddenly added
the young man, a blaze of light upon his pale
countenance. "Look here, Major Gilbert 
you must, you shall be convinced by me when I
tell you that I too love Rosamund Liscard. I
loved her before you did  before Portland did
before, long, long before I knew it myself. I
have never, by word or sign  all will bear me
witness  I have never betrayed myself. Hart-land
never suspected it  you never suspected
it. What then ? Am I to afflict myself with
cruel doubts and shame because of what I was
powerless to prevent ? Yet what has Portland

done, that I have not done \ It is for my friend's
sake I now yield up this secret ; but I feel that
knowing it, and acquitting me, as I know you
must do, of every dishonourable thought, you
cannot in justice withhold the same acquittal
from another."

Don't you see, Stoneby," said Gilbert in a
low voice, " that there is a difference ? My
poor fellow,"  and he went up and put a hand
upon the speaker's shoulder,  " my poor fellow,
you  and  I  are one. Portland is not
with us. He " he stopped.

"Yes?"

We have no hope," said Gilbert, calmly.
He has . . . You are a good man," proceeded
he, after a long silence. " I believe in
religion of this sort. It is, of course, rather
strange and confusing to me to find another
on the ground, and I must, as you say, allow
you have never in any way given rise to suspicion
of your feelings ; but  well  I will try
to think the same of Lord Portland. I wish
him no ill. Nay, since I must, I will endeavour

to feel that I have no just cause to bear
him a grudge ; but I must say this,  I hope  
I do hope that, for his own sake, he will not
marry Eosamund."

Nothing had been gained by the visit.

The next point to be considered was, should
Portland know of it or not ? His friend
decided that unless point-blank questions were
put to him, he would say nothing of the matter
; and as it was most unlikely that he should
be cross-examined, the step having been an
improbable one, he had not much fear of being
unable to keep it to himself.

As luck would have it, however, while yet
little more than half-way home, the pedestrian
was overtaken by one of the light dog-carts
belonging to the Abbey, driven by Portland's
own particular groom,  and the man, recognising
the rector of the parish, at once drew
rein. The night was dark and misty ; Jack
was tired and chilled. He reflected that
whether or not he should accept the offer of
a lift, the man's master would probably hear

that it had been made, aud where he had been
met ; and hunger and fatigue clamouring this
view of the case into his ears, up he got, begging
to be set down at a roadside cottage hard
by the rectory gate  he did not care to run
the risk of finding Lord Portland sitting with
his sister, within his own four walls.

Diplomacy thrown away. He was in the
act of dismounting, when he was hailed for
the second time that day unexpectedly, by
Portland's own voice.

Portland was standing by a wayside pool,
while his dog was dabbling among the weeds.

1 vacate to you," said Jack, as lightly ashe
could, and springing down almost before
the eager horse could be brought to a standstill.
" You'll get in, will you not ? You
are rather late for Lady Julia dinner as
it is % "

"Is it dinner - time ? " said Portland.
dreamily.

It was long past, but neither was aware
of it.

VOL. III. P

I came clown here for a walk," continued
the speaker, in the same tone. " I have not
had much of a walk to-day. There's nowhere
to go. No, I shan't get in." (To the groom.)
" Go on home. I'll follow directly. I suppose
I must," he sighed, under his breath.

Come in with me," said his friend. " My
dinner, such as it is, is no doubt ready,

and Wait a moment, Robert "  as the

dog-cart was moving off  "if you will stop
and dine with us, just send word, Portland,
won't you?" he added, judging Lady Julia's
feelings by his own.

Oh, I'll stop, of course," replied Portland,
in the same dreary accents. "I'm thankful
to stop anywhere. Tell him so ; and I say,
come along in out of this beastly cold wind,"
shivering. "Take me in with you, Stoneby;
and I say, tell them to send a close carriage
for me, when they send. I hate this cold,
night air' he murmured, plaintively.

There was no wind, and to Stoneby the
night did not appear more chilly than usual ;

but he understood. " Yes, let us get indoors
sharp' he said.

He was now glad he had got his friend
safe under his eye. Since his first appearance
had provoked no comment, he feared
nothing, and trusted to food and warmth
and resolute cheerfulness while Clementina
was by, and the unrestraint of affectionate
intercourse subsequently, to doing what could
be done in the way of soothing and cheering.

You must take what you find," he said,
stepping inside. " This may be mutton-chop
day  and if so, you are lucky. Yesterday
was mince day. I don't look upon mince
day with equal favour, I confess. To-morrow
is Sunday's beef  hot on Saturday, cold on
Sunday, demolished on Sunday night. If we
did not send it well round among the sick
folks, we should not see the end of that beef
till the middle of the week, so I hit upon the
dodge  oh, here is my sister."

How soon you are back ! " cried she,
running out into the hall at the sound of

his voice. "Have you really been in and
out of Longminster in this time "

Never mind, never mind. Here is something
much more important. Here is Lord
Portland come to dinner. What have you
got for dinner ? "

Only mutton-chops," said Clementina,
with a somewhat rueful visage. " I did not
know exactly when you would be back from
Longminster "

(t

Longminster \ " echoed Portland, as
though struck by the second repetition of
the name. " Longminster ? " And he looked
from one to the other.

Yes, I have just been in on  on business.

It did not take me long, " and the host

hung up his hat, and began to take off his
coat, as if the admission were nothing.

But you did not say you were going,
when you were with me. Did you mean
then to go ? We could have sent you over ;
we were sending anyway."

Thanks. The walk was nothing."

no, I wouldn't. Longminster ? " repeated the
speaker, suddenly. " What were you doing
in Longminster to-day ? What did yon go
for ? Whom did you see ? "

I said  I  well, Portland, I said I went
on business, you know."

Vain effort. Portland was now upon the
scent, close and keen as a bloodhound, and his
burning eye and twitching lip held out no
hope of quitting it.

Pshaw ! " he exclaimed, impatiently.
What is the use of saying that % Business
? Your business was with "

Yes  you are right  it was. Wait

but one moment, till we are alone," whispered
his friend. " One moment, dear Portland.
Come in here," opening the door of the little
sitting-room, which was, as it happened, deep
in shadow, though not shuttered-in for the

night. " What ! no lights, no fire "

You can have both directly, brother, but
we are to dine in the study, and it is all

bright and comfortable in there. I had said
we should not want the drawing-room tonight,
" began the attentive little sister,

but she was cut short ere she could explain
domestic arrangements further.

Never mind  it will do well enough,"

said Jack.

But do come in to the study," pursued
Clementina, opening the door, from which instantly
streamed forth brightness and warmth,
"see how comfortable it looks ! Do, Lord
Portland, come in here. Here, Jack," as no
one moved to obey.

For the light was, truth to tell, undesired
by either ; and Portland, to whom it was even
an annoyance, now made so peremptory and
involuntary an advance into the less tempting
chamber, that it was plain nothing could be
done for him in the way of creature-comfort.
Just like a man," murmured little Clemmy
to herself; "when they are ill, or unhappy,
they always will be uncomfortable too. Jack is
exactly the same " and she had to respond

to Jack's significant glance over his shoulder,
and nod in answer to it, and trot off to the
kitchen to delay the cooking of the chops, and
feel all the while that if she had been at the
helm, and had had the management of Lord
Portland's affairs, she would have contrived
infinitely better,  she would have seen to it
that he had first of all a good dinner (though
it were a plain one), a good dinner, and a
glass of good wine, and then his chair wheeled
round to the fire, and some nice coffee or tea
brought to him, over which he could confide
his troubles comfortably,  instead of allowing
him to turn in to that dismal drawing-room,
with the blinds still up, and there, all tired
and fasting as he was, plunge into an anxious
interview. For she could see with half an
eye what the interview was likely to be, and
Men are so stupid," concluded the little soul,
shaking her head over them both.

But perhaps Jack was sometimes as wise
as she.

He had heard that in his friend's voice, and

seen that in his face, which told him that
delay might be as dangerous as evasion was
hopeless ; and felt that all which now remained
for him to do, was to be as brief and
as satisfactory as was possible. Alas ! no real
satisfaction was possible.

"Portland," he began, however, "you are
right, quite right, in what I perceive to be
your conjecture. You suppose I went to see
Gilbert \ I did. And I saw him. He is on
the eve of departure from Longmiuster. He
goes tomorrow, and "

Get on  get on. There is something

more than this. You went to him for more

than this. You went ?" and he looked

the rest.

I went because of what you told me just
now. Forgive me if I should not have done
so, but "

Oh, it's all right. I am glad, on the whole,
you did. Do you know, I am glad you did.
What did you say ? What did he say ? Did
you  did he ? What does he think of

me ? But why need I ask ? " he suddenly
wheeled round. " What can he think ? You
need not be afraid to say. Speak out plainly.
Oh, it will not hurt me ; and what if it does ?
It is only what I ought to expect ; of course
he will abuse me "

He did not abuse you. On the contrary
he "

"Well?"

He was most moderate and calm. I never
thought to have felt myself so constrained to
admire "

"Ah! we know all that. That's the

old thins over again. We are all constrained
to admire,  and then  some of us break down.
Now look here, Stoneby ; I must know, and I
will know exactly, what passed between you
and Gilbert this afternoon. You cannot refuse

to tell me, and until I hear " his haggard,

expectant gaze supplied the rest.

I will tell you all, Portland."

You fancied that Gilbert took it that he
owed his dismissal to you," proceeded the

speaker after a moment's pause, " and that inconsequence
he doubted your integrity "

"Oh, doubted my integrity ! My good
fellow, say he thought me a blackguard. We
want plain words now."

"I was able to give him my solemn assurance
you were not."

He did think it, then ? " quickly.

He had not known what to think. Evidently
the idea had been presented to him,
and had been dismissed. He had been twice
told that there was nothing between you and
your cousin "

Who had told him ? "

Lady Julia and Miss Liscard herself."

'shad they? Had they? But how then

his face fell heavily. " It is only on

that understanding, is it, that I am to be
exonerated ? You had to assure them that
there was nothing, and never would be anything,
between us ? And Eosamund, had she
done so too ? Oh, I daresay he will forgive
me, if he has her word for that f He "

I don't think he had had her word

for that. Indeed, from what he let fall, I
gathered that he had had no one's word for
anything of the kind. To tell the truth,
Portland, I fancy that he still fears, still
looks upon you as a rival, and as a probably
successful one in the future."

Oh ! " there was a perceptible alteration
of tone.

In which case, you can hardly wonder if
he is a little difficult to convince just at
present."

He was difficult, was he 1 "

"Yes."

Well ? Go on."

"Gilbert has been accustomed to think for
himself, and judge for himself; and though
after a time he was willing to acknowledge ina
form of words that he had no just cause to
bear you a grudge, I own that I felt his heart
scarcely went with his lips. He did not seem
to understand, and perhaps he could hardly be
expected to understand, how you could feel as

you do without having direct cause for doing
so. I had told him of your grief and "

"And shame," said Portland, emphatically.
" I am ashamed  ashamed ; and 1 care
not who knows it. I feel as if we had all
bitten the dust before this man. He is above
us all, and may look down upon us all. It is
that which cuts, Stoneby. If only we had
played him fair "

Do you not see, Portland, that you are
taking on your shoulders a burden which
forgive my saying so  only belongs to
another ? "

If you mean Eosamund," said Portland,
quickly, " I  I  not a word against Rosamond.
The poor girl is punished enough.
You would not have her  you would not talk
of her  I  I mean  let her alone."

So I will ; but as you have identified yourself
in a measure with her, and suffer accordingly,
you cannot wonder that Gilbert thinks
your share in the wrong done him "

I told you I had no share. Stoneby,

I told you, before heaven, I was guiltless.
You ought to have assured Gilbert of this.
Why, good heavens !  did you allow him to
think "

Stoneby strove to be patient.

"No, Portland, I allowed him to think
nothing that was not true. But you had
yourself made the task so difficult, that I
was obliged to be content without accomplishing
my chief end. I was forced to leave
Gilbert to reconcile as best he might, your
feelings of a criminal with your protestations
of being an innocent man. You can yourself
perceive that this was not an easy thing
to do ; but after all, what matter ? He will
do it some day. Some day, in time, when the
first shock has passed away, he will be able
to see more clearly, and to do you justice.
My assurances will recur to his mind. He
will remember those of others likewise, and
his nobler nature will assert itself; the time
will surely come when you will be as clear in
his eyes as you are in those of all others."

If I am not," said Portland, bitterly, " I
will never, so help me Heaven "

"Portland, not another word. Each vows
are easily made, and hang like millstones
round the neck thereafter. Say nothing 
do nothing  for the present. Remember that
one week ago you would have given the world
to have had matters as they are now. Then
be thankful ; be patient ; and wait."

CHAPTER XXXVI.

lady julia's little plan,

I delight in the tender passions, and would befriend all under their
influence."  The Duenna.

A melancholy and dreary time now set in
for all connected with those in whom we are
interested, with one exception, and that exception
was Miss Catharine Liscard.

Catharine, as we know, was a young person
with a natural aptitude for turning events,
whether of joy or sorrow to those around her,
to her own advantage ; and she had early seen
the strong points of the present situation.

In Lady Caroline's day, and in Rosamund's
day, Catharine had been nowhere  a demure
puss, creeping about in the background ;

occasionally emitting sparks, it is true, which
might have enlightened more watchful eyes,
but which had been passed over by those two
dominant spirits, each too much taken up with
her own whims and projects to give a moment
to the supposition that a younger and feebler
member of the family, could also have a mind
of her own.

Catharine had bided her time.

On the death of her mother she had made
some faint, wavering, and uncertain attempts
at coming forward, making herself useful, and
sliding into a more prominent position ; but
Rosamond had been in no mood to allow of
indulgences and encroachments at that time.
Everything which had savoured of a reflection
on the old customs, and an overturning of
the set routine, had been promptly quelled,
and Catharine had at first made no way.

Then she had tried making friends with
Gilbert, and been more successful. She had
more than once taken him off her sister's
hands, enabled Rosamond to slip away to

solitude when only she could have done so,
and established a claim on the latter's gratitude
which had borne fruit. When she had
been permitted to dine late on the night of
Emily's and Henrietta's arrival, the ice had
been really broken.

All the rest had been easy. She had made
a slip in looking ungenial on the first symptoms
of a more jocose dinner-table than was
usual  and that on the first occasion of her
presiding over it  but the error had been
quickly retrieved ; and although another
momentary check had been received on the
abrupt cessation of the frolicsome succeeding
week, she had again found her opportunity in
the reaction which had followed.

Dear papa could not dine alone  could not
drive about alone  could not have a long, dull
evening alone. She had so much enjoyed dear
papa's music ; and had practised an accompaniment
on purpose to please him, so surely now
he would not refuse to hear it \ What could
dear papa do but agree, and listen to her care-vol.

hi. 0.

fully prepared chit-chat, and, in spite of himself,
be drawn into ordering the phaeton round
and bringing out the flute ?

Certes, Catharine was better than nobody.
And though one's own schoolgirl daughter is
no great thing, and a poor exchange for a
lively, bantering, roguish young lady visitor,
still, dien the one is not to be had, it is as well
to put up with the other,  and by degrees Mr
Liscard found it so.

For one thing, Catharine, conscious of the
feeble tenure by which she held her present
high estate, took infinitely greater pains to
amuse and gratify her parent than any other
member of the house ever had thought of taking
with Lady Caroline's husband  for in that
light he had always been regarded.

Catharine was not only invariably good-humoured
and attentive and at his service,
but she had little ingratiating offices at command,
and little affectionate flatteries on
the tip of her tongue whenever opportunity
offered. Through her he learned that Mrs

Twopenny, the baker's wife, thought him the
youngest-looking gentleman of his years she
had ever known ; and that Mrs Jenkins at the
home farm had heard he had such a power of
learning, that she was afraid so much as tolet
fall a word before him.

He had her own assurance of his talents asa
whip, coupled with the compliments on the
same subject left behind by Emily Gilbert.
He heard that he never looked so well as on
the box-seat of his phaeton, and that he managed
the spirited pair so beautifully that no
one need ever be nervous when driven by him.

Naturally the spirited pair came to the door
the next day, and Catharine was driven wherever
she wanted to go.

Again, with a diligence which neither love
of the art nor fear of Miss Penrose had ever
been able to incite, the dutiful daughter now
mastered such simple ditties as a flute very
much out of "practice could accomplish ; and
as Mr Liscard was really fond of music for its
own sake, and had only been discouraged from

cultivating it by Lady Caroline's persistent
inattention and ignorance, there was no doubt
that a resource against ennui had now been
hit upon.

To Catharine it was, for the present, joy
enough merely to play the grown-up person ;
to sit in the vast saloon and have coffee handed
to her along with her father ; and to stay up
at night until she chose to go to bed.

For this she would have paid a much
heavier price than merely drumming on the
piano for an hour or so daily ; and when,
with an easy air, she one day found herself
asking for the loan of her father s purse as they
drove through the streets of Longminster, and
subsequently shopping with it, here and there,
all over the place, without his remonstrating,
or even seeming to observe what she was about
(so taken up was he with himself, his horses,
and his horsemanship)  her cup was full, and
ran over.

What was it to her that her sister, the
beauty, the pride of the neighbourhood, lay

slowly recovering from the brink of death,
feeble, wasted, helpless, unable for the slightest
exertion of mind or body, the bloom on her
cheeks faded, the round, healthy limbs shrunk
and almost powerless, the once vigorous spirit
like that of a little child 1

Catharine would answer all inquiries in her
most cheerful accents.

Rosamund is ever so much better, thank
you. Yes, isn't it a pity she has had to have
her hair cut off? But I daresay it will soon
grow again." Or, " Aunt Julia says Rosamund
is doing as well as we could possibly
expect. We have just been to the Abbey.
Some of us go over nearly every day." Or,
Rosamund always liked being with Aunt
Julia. I daresay she would rather be ill at
the Abbey than anywhere else."

If interrogated as to the probable duration
of the sick girl's recovery, Catharine would
occasionally astonish her interrogator. "When
will Rosamund be fit to come home ? Oh
dear, not for a long, long time yet. We have

not even seen her yet. Oh, we have not
thought about her coming home at all. Aunt
Julia says she does not know in the least
when she will be fit to be moved even downstairs,
 and as for leaving the Abbey, Aunt
Julia will keep her as long as ever she possibly
can." And it was tolerably obvious that
if Aunt Julia were to keep the sick girl altogether,
one person at least would find no
fault with the arrangement.

The way that ridiculous Catharine is
getting the upper hand in that poor, neglected
house, really annoys me more than I can tell ! "
exclaimed Mrs Wakefield one day, on returning
from King's Common, where Catharine
had done the honours with an alacrity
and solicitude more than creditable as a performance,
but which did not answer so well
with every one as with her docile papa. " I
confess that to see that mere child sitting
perked up in the drawing-room in an afternoon,
ordering about, and taking the management
of everything  she who ought to beat

lier grammar and her geography, and
would never have been visible at all, had her
poor mother or Rosamund been about  it is
quite too much for me. The child is insufferable.
I cannot think where she picked up
all that manner. Rosamund had not an atom
of it  not at any time,  she was as charming
and simple as possible, even when she had
begun to be noticed, and made much of; and,
for a wonder, Lady Caroline had the wisdom
not to try to improve her. But Catharine is
a born actress and diplomatist. Her coolness,
her self-possession, the way in which she persecutes
you with attentions and inquiries  and
all the time with such evident satisfaction in
her own perfect address, and savoir faire,  I
scarcely know how to look. She is a detestable
child," quoth the speaker, with energy.

Rosamund, Mrs Wakefield had been unable
to resist, in spite, perhaps, of an involuntary
touch of envy, and wonder that the unamiable,
uninviting Lady Caroline Liscard should have
such a bright and radiant creature belonging

to her  but she could let herself out, as it
were, about Catharine.

Catharine reigning at King's Common, in
all the glory of solitude and prominence, and
with obvious forecasting of gay doings and
revelry by-and-by, was likely to have advantages
and surroundings such as she could not
hope to give her girls ; and what was Catharine
that she should merit such promotion?
If her father went on as he had begun, indeed,
the young regent's reign might be short,
though merry  but Mrs Wakefield did not
under-rate the abilities of the astute damsel ;
she did not think that "dear papa" would
find himself left altogether free to pick and
choose his society. Already Catharine had
made great strides in her ascendancy ; and ashe
was a man certain sooner or later to fall
once more under the dominion of petticoat
government, if the daughter could only hold
her ground for a time, she stood an excellent
chance of having him completely under her
thumb for the future.

No one would have been more indignant at
all of this than Lady Julia, had Lady Julia
not been entirely engrossed at this period by
other and sweeter cares.

It had become all in all to her to nurse, and
watch, and brighten, and support the feeble
life now struggling back to youth and strength
again. To mark the truant colour stealing
once more over her darling's cheek, as the weeks
rolled by ; to note the little daily increase of
appetite ; to hail with delight the lengthened
nightly slumbers ; to provide dainties and
delicacies, and cater amusement sufficiently
simple and unexciting  the while in her heart
she built anew her lately shattered castle in
the air,  all of this afforded such a round of
occupation as left neither time nor inclination
for much outside the Abbey precincts. Her
days were completely filled up, and, in consequence,
she scarcely ever went to King's
Common, and knew but little of what went
on there.

When Catharine would jump down from

the phaeton, and run in to her aunt, all eagerness
to know about the sort of night dear
Rosamund had passed, and the sort of breakfast
she had made, who could find a fault
with that ? When she would rejoin, in
answer to her aunt's vague hints that it
might be long before the invalid would be
able to resume her wonted place as elder
daughter and sister, that if only dear Rosamund's
life were spared to them, they ought
not to mind how long she was in getting
well and coming home, nothing could be
prettier.

The Gilberts, root and branch, eliminated,
love and kindness for humankind once more
returned to inhabit the tender-hearted Lady
Julia's bosom  animosity and antagonism
being foreign bodies in that soil ; and overflowing
as she was now with a thankful, tearful
felicity, she only felt ready to pity all
others not so happy as herself.

Catharine in consequence got off cheap.

She had but little to do. Her fervent inquires

and congratulations, her ready acquiescence
in any little scheme for her sister's
comfort, and, above all, her protestations that
all was going on well at King's Common,

o  

but that, of course, they were very dull, very
quiet (sand very respectable, just as they
should be," internally commented her auditor)
completely satisfied that good lady's mind :
the consequence of which was, that the niece
stood higher in her aunt's good graces at this
period than she had ever done before  or, perhaps,
was ever likely to do again.

The poor children, however, were no better
off under the new regime than under the
former ones. Their palmiest days had been,
indeed, when Gilbert's influence was young,
and had been exerted on their behalf; for
now Catharine, flaunting in her new-born
state, would no more be troubled with them
than would Lady Caroline or Rosamond, and
even they had not been more firmly convinced
of the efficacy of schoolroom regulations, and
the need for the whole remaining eight being

invariably kept out of sight and hearing, than
was the barely emancipated pupil.

The only difference was that Catharine
patronised Miss Penrose, which Rosamund
had never done.

Rosamund had been sorry for the little
governess, but she had not cared to seek her
society ; and in her rampant heyday, it is to
be feared the wilful girl had done little she
had not cared to do. Catharine, however,
was now hand in glove with her late preceptress,
who, in her turn, would not have
been human if she had not enjoyed the turn
things had thus taken.

Miss Penrose would be begged to comedown
to the drawing-room in the evenings,
and hear the flute and latest duet  when we
may be sure she praised the accompaniment
also ; she would be invited to accompany
Catharine on her shopping expeditions to
Longminster, when these came to be more
frequent than dear papa cared for (and dear
papa was never troubled to do anything for

which he really had a distaste at this time) :
so there, by Miss Catharine's side in the pony-carriage,
though on a lower seat, would perch
the little narrow strip of a governess, taking up
next to no room, and feeling quite complacent
since, poor soul, the low seat was indubitably
better than none at all, and a drive, and
a peep at the gay windows, and helping Catharine
to make purchases, and standing by
while Catharine talked to acquaintances, better
than droning on in that endless grind which
had swallowed up so many years of her life
at King's Common.

She never refused the holiday, or half-holiday,
petitioned for by her late pupil, when
the little band had been invited to the Abbey
to run riot among Lady Julia's pets, and be
stuffed with her good things,  but she and
Catharine did not make up the party going
there. They would be off to the town, to
dressmakers, milliners, and what not  Miss
Penrose to inspect and admire, Catharine to
price and purchase. So many parcels had

never found their way to a carriage belonging
to King's Common before.

All this time what was Portland doing: ?

Getting acclimatised to the new order of
things ; beginning to be a little more cheerful,
a little less silent ; to take an imperceptibly
growing interest in the state of the
fields, the weather, the progress of the new
farm-buildings, the stables, the kennels, the
spring meetings, and the prospect of the
cricketing season.

He was not quite so keen a cricketer as he
had been a year or two before  but still he
fancied he should not give up his team. He
thought he should get together a few good
horses, and go in for hunting the following
season  there was a prospect of the hunt
being improved, and he ought to encourage
it. There was still a little shooting, and as
Eosamund's condition continued to improve,
shooting men came and went, and made some
sort of variety. But still there was more
needed.

"He requires an out-and-out thorough
change," said his friend Stoneby, one day.
You should pack Portland off, Lady Julia.
He is moping here."

My dear Mr Stoneby, / pack Portland
off! Why, nothing on earth would induce
him to go. He will not stir from home ;
he has not slept a night away from the
house since  you know when."

"The very reason he should go now."

I am quite sure* he will not go  until
Rosamond is better."

She is out of all danger now, Lady Julia."

"Oh, entirely, dear child; nothing but
strength is needed. As soon as she is fit to
travel, I propose taking her abroad. Why,
to be sure "  and she stopped, and her whole
face beamed  "to be sure, if Portland would
go with us ! "

"No, no, not that," said Mr Stoneby,

smiling and shaking his head. " No, Lady
Julia, that would not suffice. That would dono
good at all," added he, frankly, for he was

now drawn by a closer tie than ever to the
Abbey inmates, and was known as "Hart-land's
dear, kind, invaluable friend" there.
Do you not understand," proceeded he, "that
that sort of change would simply be no
change % Portland ought to leave behind him
every familiar thought, and voice, and face.
He ought to breathe a completely new mental
atmosphere. He needs this even more than a
physical one. For that very reason I have
not offered myself "

 Oh, if you would ! "

It would not answer ; it would not serve
our end, Lady Julia. Let him shake off for
the time every one and everything with which
is connected a painful association. Let him
go over the seas, right away  say to America,
across the Rocky Mountains, camp out in the
Far West  you will have him come back
another man. Before he knows, he will find
himself disencumbered of all the cobwebs
which the last six months have spun around
him. He will knock up new acquaintanceships

; form new interests ; insensibly drop his
melancholy, and  wonder what has become of
his liver. I assure you, Lady Julia, a great
deal of the gloom which still overshadows
Portland  though it has lightened much of
late  is due to a very prosaic and explicable
cause. He is capricious about his food, and
neglects his hours. Then, for a long time, he
took not a third of his usual exercise. Then,
he has had no society "

"Very true indeed' assented poor Lady
Julia, as meekly as if she had been to blame
for it all ; " but, Mr Stoneby, he is so much
better than he was."

He is better : he is getting over it," replied
Jack ; " and for that very reason he is fit to
go off by himself, and to get all the good of so
doing. We could not have trusted him alone
till now."

"And he was too anxious," and she shot
him a glance.

Yes, of course. To have left you in your
anxiety would have been unfeeling "

vol. in. R

Oh, Mr Stoneby, you know what I mean."

You mean that he was unhappy on his
own account \ "

"I am sure, certain, that he cares for lier.
And I had so hoped that when she was able
to be down-stairs and about, and when they
could see each other quietly every day, and
she could get to know him and appreciate him
oh, you know, I think you know, what is

my greatest hope and prayer " and the

fond, imprudent creature clasped her hands,
while the water stood in her eyes.

My dear lady," said Jack, quietly, " has it
ever struck you that perhaps, in the old days,
if this event which you so earnestly desire had
not been put in motion, and prepared for as it
were, it might already have come to pass of itself
? Believe me, it does not do to try to pull
the strings of destiny "

"We only thought it would be so nice,"
murmured she.

Who could proceed with a lecture after
that?

Certainly you understand Portland as no
one else does," conceded Lady Julia, recovering
herself; "and Rosamund is not  of course 
poor darling, she is thin, and pale, and fragile-looking
; and with all her beautiful hair gone,
she cannot look her best. It might be as well
that Portland should not see her just now."

Quite as well," assented Jack, profoundly.

She will soon be every bit as pretty  as
beautiful as ever," added Lady Julia, jealousy
in arms at once. " People are very much mistaken
who think she is going to be a poor,
pale invalid for the rest of her life. Still 
for the present, we must be thankful to have
her as she is. And if you think Portland

should really go " and she sighed a sigh

of resignation.

It was a little hard to have to give up all
the cosy prospect of Eosamund as the most
interesting of convalescents, making daily progress
under Portland's care ;  she had pictured
fresh spring mornings, and had seen the two
sauntering hither and thither in the sunshine,

she leaning her fragile form upon his stalwart
arm, he bending over, all pride and protection,
she had seen the happy girl piloted in the
broad, low, easy carriage, through green lanes
and budding hedgerows  seen the hourly
increase of tenderness on the one hand, and
confidence on the other, finally ending in the
glad avowal  all taking place in her own
childhood's home, the home to be also theirs !

Still, if it would be best otherwise, who was
she to rebel 1 Ultimately she decided to
sound Portland, and find out how he felt in
the matter.

As she had foreseen, at first he would hear
neither reason nor argument, and stood stoutly
out against the idea. He had no need of anything
of the kind. He was very well where
he was. He was not in the mood for travel.
If they liked, he would go up to town for a
few clays, presently. He would go to Liverpool
and see the Grand National run. More
than that he would not do.

But by degrees the continual droppings,

which are said to wear out a stone, had their
effect.

Lady Julia, having been brought to perceive
that the tempting vision of her tw r o beloved
billing and cooing under her protecting wing,
was not perhaps the most likely one to prove
a reality, nor, if it did, to produce lasting happiness
 since the one stood in scarcely less
need of care than the other  ended by throwing
herself heart and soul into Mr Stoneby's
proposition ; was convinced because he
was convinced, and resolute because he was
resolute.

When Portland was restored to full health
and vigour, and Rosamund to her home and
position  then would be the time for love-making
proper to recommence. Her other
scheme would now, she saw, with the usual
adaptability of her sweet and pliable nature,
be not without its drawbacks.

Accordingly she was full to the brim of
assurances, and prognostications ; called in Mr
Stoneby to supply arguments ; and got hopelessly

entangled amidst wilds, deserts, and
prairies.

The result, however, was all that was
desired.

Portland was off, and off without seeing his
cousin.

She did not ask to see him, nor he to see
her," Lady Julia explained to her confidential
adviser, thereafter. " Why he did not, I cannot
tell ; but I think I can guess at dear Rosamund's
feelings. Poor child, she does so dislike
the sight of herself in the glass. And I
am sure a sweeter face  but the little frilled
cap is rather trying. I cannot honestly say it
is becoming, and I hope she will soon be able
to dispense with it. Her hair is beginning to
show again nicely, and will be quite lovely
within a month or two. Still, I think, I do
think, it is something to do with that, which
makes her shrink from seeing any one ; and
when I told her Portland had sent her his
good-bye,' she seemed rather relieved than
otherwise ; only a little  perhaps a little 

disappointed ; but I don't know. One thing,
however, she certainly did not ask to see him."

Not long after the young man's departure,
the invalid was pronounced not only fit to be
down-stairs and out of doors, but to contemplate
the trip of which Lady Julia had spoken.

The project accordingly took shape with
increased minuteness, and at length grew so
alluring and so prominent, that a desire  an
unmistakable desire  to partake in it, began
to manifest itself on the part of Rosamund's
sister.

Could she not be of use in helping to wait
upon dear Rosamund ? Could she not run
about, and fetch and carry for her ? Could
she not save Aunt Julia trouble, write her
letters, and talk French ? Miss Penrose had
always pronounced her to be the best French
scholar in the family, and it would be such a
pleasure to talk French for Aunt Julia.

Aunt Julia, however, was not to be tempted.
Catharine might be very well at King's Common,
and her notable qualities were of service

there as keeping all smooth during her sister's
enforced absence  so much the good lady was
ready to allow ; but beyond that, she had no
love for her younger niece.

Had Eosamund indeed expressed a wish
for her companionship  but Eosamund almost
laughed at the suggestion. She and
Catharine had never had an idea in common.
To Lady Julia she would not now expose her
sister, as in old times she had not spared todo,
but neither was she going to give in to
Catharine yet.

"If it had been Clemmy Stoneby ! " she
said, and almost before the words had crossed
her lips, Clemmy Stoneby it was to be.

"My dear child, what an excellent, what
a first-rate idea ! Of course, Clemmy is the
very person. She must and shall come. She
is devoted to you, and she,  I will pay all her
expenses  everything. We owe so much to
her dear, kind, invaluable brother. How
thankful we should be to have such a young
man for our parish clergyman ! And Clementina

herself will be quite perfect as a
companion. Besides which, I cannot rejoice
enough at having it in my power to give
her the pleasure."

Poor little Clementina was in the seventh
heaven when she had received Jack's consent,
and all was arranged.

As for Catharine, she made no complaint.
A few weeks after the party had started, they
received a note from her, dated from the
south of France. Dear papa was taking her
the most delightful Continental tour ; and she
came home with her portmanteaus as full of
new dresses, and knick-knacks, as a bride on
her wedding-trip.

It was getting time for Eosamund to be at
home again.

CHAPTER XXXVII.

SHE HAS HAD HER LESSON.

Adversity is like the period of the earlier and of the later rain 
cold, comfortless, and unfriendly both to men and to animals ;  yet
from thence have their birth the flower and the fruit, the rose, the
date, and the pomegranate."  Scott.

At length the truants returned.

All alike had grown weary of endless novelty
and unlimited idleness, and pined for the
familiar sights and sounds, pursuits and pleasures,
delights and even the drawbacks of an
English home.

The spring and summer had been passed by
Lady Julia and her niece in exploring Italian
and Swiss resorts, wandering about from one
grand old city to another, till the heat drove
them northward ; remaining there for some

months among the snow-peaks and glaciers ;
and finally settling down at a German spa,
until the life there became unendurable.

Lord Portland had had a wider experience.
He had travelled fast and far ; had seen many
strange and stirring sights ; traversed mighty
rivers ; camped out in lonely wildernesses ;
made countless friends ; learned much, heard
much, thrown his heart and sympathies
abroad in all directions ; ' and had entered
into every adventure and enterprise with a
zest which had brought its own reward.

He was now, as predicted, another man.
Moody, melancholy introspection was gone
for ever. Unreasonable woe had vanished.
The spring of life was all in bud afresh.

He still loved his cousin ; he still felt grief
and shame with a chastened pang, when a
wave of recollection would now and again
break over his spirit as from some dead
storm ; but, no longer crushed and overwhelmed,
he now stood upright, strong to bear
the past, and hopeful even of the future.

He would not shun Rosamund, but neither
would he sue her.

He thought he could be sure that so far no
thought of him as a lover had ever crossed
her mind ; and if this were the case, a renewal
of the old intercourse could be maintained
without danger to either, so long as he kept
a watch upon himself.

He did not mean to be too bold. Eosa-
round, according to her aunt, was now more
beautiful, more bewitching than ever, and,
added to that, the dearest, dearest girl in
the world. "You can have no idea of the
sensation she creates everywhere," wrote
Lady Julia. " People are always getting
introduced to her ; and then they are so
angry with me because she refuses to go to
their dances, and will not take any part in
the amusements that are always going on.
This is a very gay place, and there are plenty
of pretty girls about, but none to equal Rosamond.
So every one says. She cannot help
being seen, for she is always out and about

looking so lovely in her white frock and
hat  and I may confess to you what I should
not dare to do to her, that sometimes I am
tempted to suggest going on the promenade
and hearing a little music at the gay hour,
because I cannot resist showing her off, and
seeing all the eyes following us. But although
she never objects to anything of that sort 
(not the admiration, but the walking, and
sitting under the trees)  she cannot be persuaded
to more. She says she is not strong
enough ; and, to be sure, she is not very
strong yet, not quite her old, robust self 
but between ourselves, I do not feel that that
is altogether the reason. I gather that she
thinks she ought not to be amusing herself
as other girls do, quite as if nothing had
happened. Perhaps she is right, dear child;
and it w T ould be terrible if anything of the
kind were to begin over again. It might,
you know. There are one or tw T o here, who
are most obvious adorers from afar ; and who
would need only the slightest encouragement

to be at her feet. It is pretty to see how she
avoids them, and yet how anxious she is to be
kind to all, and never to hurt nor pain anybody.
Oh, Portland, our darling has had a
sore and bitter lesson, but the fruits of it are
only too sweet. I almost tremble when I
think how dear, how very dear she is to me."

Next it was, " Rosamund and I are at last
setting off for England. We shall travel
slowly, and probably remain a day or two
in London, although no one is there now.
But Rosamund wishes to get some autumn
things for the children, and to see about a
new governess."

Rosamund might have spared her pains.
She was informed that the children had all been
fitted out before she arrived, and Catharine,
armed with her father's authority, had already
engaged a French mademoiselle, recommended
by some of her new acquaintances.

We did not know when to expect you,"
she explained subsequently, " and papa thought
it a pity to wait. Lady Belmont assured

me it was quite a chance that Mademoiselle
Forestier was disengaged ; so papa said, write
at once."

Who is Lady Belmont ? " demanded the
elder sister, with something of an accent on
the "who."

"Papa and I met her in Paris. She was
so kind to us. We saw a great deal of her
there."

I thought you had only been in Paris fora
few days ? "

We saw her on nearly all of them."

Is she your only reference for this French
girl ? "

Certainly," said Catharine, drawing herself
up. " Papa and I felt that we did not require
any other. We were quite satisfied."

Quite satisfied ! Sixteen and three-quarters
was quite satisfied ! Yet in spite of herself,
the cold composure in the speaker's eye made
the spirit of the other sink. She had no heart
for wars and fighting, she was so longing for
peace, and love, and kindness, all round ; so

anxious to be just and forbearing even to
Catharine, who must ever be a trial and perplexity,
that it did seem hard to be confronted
with so grave an offence on the very threshold
of her return.

But little did she guess how far things had
gone !

Now, at every turn, she found herself
being informed of new habits, new customs,
new laws  all, as could plainly be perceived,
of one person's making, yet none of which
were owned by her. Oh dear, no ; it was
papa who " liked this " ; papa who had
grown accustomed to that " ; papa who
"never did" such and such a tiring now, or
who, contrariwise, "always did" it.

Papa showed Catharine his letters. Papa
expected her in the library after breakfast.
Papa could not spare her to do any lessons,
so they had never been resumed. She
had had to be everything to papa for so
long, that he could not now do without her.
It is to be feared that the very sound of

papa's name grew at last obnoxious in poor
Rosamund's ears.

By degrees she saw it all. The younger
had supplanted the elder, and taken away her
birthright,  and though it must in fairness be
added that the birthright in question was one
which the latter would never for its own sake
have coveted, still she could not stand by and
look on, without something: of the old, warm
blood boiling within.

She had come home fancying that it would
never boil again. She had been feeling so
humble, so peaceful, so anxious by meek and
gentle ways to show her sense of past folly,
and resolutions for future amendment : she
had felt as if nothing that might be said of
her would be too severe, as if the coldness of
friends, the condemnation of the world, and
the stares of the village folks, would be only
her meet punishment,  and had by reflection
and prayer strengthened her soul to bear all.

But this peculiar form of retribution was
precisely what had not been expected.

VOL. III. s

It must be remembered that the Catharine
known to Rosamund in days gone by, had been
but a poor creature ; at whom she had been used
to laugh and flout when a child, and turn her
back upon when a woman. In no other character
had she beheld her sister, until now. During
her convalescence, caresses, inquiries, and
profuse solicitude had been the order of the
day ; while not a word had been said to her of
the triumphal progress the emancipated schoolroom
miss was making to the top of the tree.
All had been carefully kept in the background ;
and now the grand result of the whole broke
over the head of the returned wanderer, like a
thunderclap. Catherine was all in all.

Mr Liscard, no longer a cipher, but applauded,
flattered, and put forward, was by
no means inclined to think meanly of any one
who gave him such an excellent opinion of
himself. Catharine's judgment  since it invariably
coincided with his own  was eagerly
sought, and pronounced invaluable. He and
Catharine could manage everything between

them ; and perhaps it was but natural that he
should add peevishly, that Eosamund had no
business to interfere.

But it is about the children that I mind
most," the latter confided to her aunt. " I did
so hope to do better for my poor little sisters and
brothers than was  was done for me. I may
say that to you, may I not ? You will understand.
But this Mademoiselle Forestier is not
the right person for them at all ; and yet she is
so backed up by papa and Catharine that I can
do nothing. They are too strong for me," and
Rosamond's lip trembled.

Too strong for my Eosamund ! " said her
aunt, gaily. "Nay, my darling, be patient,
and do your best. These trials often pass
quickly. And you are the eldest daughter 
mistress of your father's house "

Neither of these now," said Eosamund,

sadly. " I have forfeited my claim to everything,
I think. My father almost tells me so.
Catharine openly shows it. Even the little
Frenchwoman follows their lead. As Catharine

engaged her and received her. she all but
declines to take so much as a message from
any one else. The other day when I spoke
about something lh<syished to have altered,
she looked at me calmly, and said, ' Et Mademoiselle
Catharine ? ' "

"You should speak to your father."

I have. It did no good."

She did not add that it had done harm,
that Mr Liscard had testily rejoined that
really it was a pity she had come home
to disturb every one ; and that, as she had
been so happy with her aunt, he should recommend
her continuing to make the Abbey
her home, and leaving them to their own
quiet ways.

The cruel taunt had pierced deeply, and
could be breathed to no one.

Her place, whether for good or ill, was now,
Rosamund felt, beneath her parent's roof ; and
though many if not most of her days were
spent with Lady Julia, she made a rule of
carefully returning every night, and pursuing

her quiet round, as though settling down at
King's Common for years to come.

This had gone on for some weeks, when one
fine September morning Portland, bronzed,
reddened, big, bright, and hearty, re-appeared
like a great sun rising on the neighbourhood.

He had been missed by all, and by none
more than his young cousins ; and their
tumultuous greetings and demonstrations 
for they had their first sight of his tall
figure approaching through the park, while
at play there in a holiday hour  acted as a
sort of shield for the meeting which had been
alike longed for and dreaded by two of the
group.

Rosamund had been sitting a little apart;
the day was warm, and there was but a faint
tint in her cheeks. He thought she did not
look as well as he had expected, and that
the little hand which rested for a moment
in his, felt small and thin. He told his aunt
afterwards that, in his opinion, his cousin
had a good deal of leeway yet to make up,

ere she could regain what she had lost. He
told himself that he had done very well; got
over the first sight of her bravely ; and could
feel confidence in his hold over his heart
for the future.

Foolhardy mortal ! Lady Julia needed
not to have sighed so dolefully as he left
the room  nor Catharine to have simpered
and bridled, and been sure that Portland
had come home more delightful than ever,
because he had addressed to her the chief
part of his travel talk. The old spell was
at work again before any of them knew 
before he knew himself.

First of all recommenced the old habit of
walking in and out of King's Common at
all hours and seasons ; then there would belong
lingering in the dusk, when by chance
Rosamond was met in the gardens, or shrubberies
; long talks in the bay-window, waiting
for the driving party, who, it not infrequently
happened, would be late in coming back 
(Catharine liking much to look in for her tea

at this house and the other in the neighbourhood)
 and instant recollections of Lady Julia's
waiting for him, and speedy departure, immediately
the room filled.

To be sure, the cousins were not quite so
easy together as they had used to be ; and
instead of boldly claiming her company fora
stroll, as he had been wont to do, Portland
must needs now manoeuvre to get it, and look
black, and say not a word, if frustrated. He
would not say openly " Two's company, three's
none," as he had not scrupled to do the year
before, when desirous of getting rid of Catharine,
who was no more a favourite with him
than with her sister  but he would hearken
diligently to any plans let fall, and base his
line of operations accordingly.

Catharine used to wonder how it was that
they had invariably missed him, when she and
her father had been out on one of their long
afternoon excursions. At such times he would
be over early, and he would stay late. He
would not quit the side of her whom he had

come to see  no, not for a moment. Out of
doors, if a child ran up and pressed between
them, he would lift it aside ; within, whatever
seat she took, he would draw his near. As
the time passed, he would press still closer,
take an interest in the book she had been
reading, the work she had been doing, in
anything that enabled him to lean over her
chair, and make her turn her head his way.

His voice would be low and soft ; he would
halt before her name,  and yet the name would
be oftener on his lips than perhaps it should
have been. He did not talk to Eosamund
about his travels, and his new friends, and
new experiences, as he did to Catharine or to
Dolly,  it seemed as if he had nothing to
say about them to this other auditor  as if
for her he had her own topics.

And when the long, dreamy, desultory 
would at last be rudely broken in upon
by the return of the driving party, noisy and
merry, the Portland who rose and straightened
himself up, at their approach, would be quite

another person than Rosamund's companion

in the low chair, during the past hour or two.

He would seldom be induced to stop on.

An evening at King's Common meant not
 

only being usurped by one or other of the two

who had no attractions for him, but a growing

indignation on another's behoof. But little


perception was needed to understand how
matters stood in the re-adjusted household,
and, guided by Lady Julia, he could hardly
go wrong. He felt dangerous on the subject,
and being a peaceable man, thought it best to
avoid explosive opportunities.

But he got to know better and better at what
times Rosamund would be alone, and the spots
she haunted,  and I fear me he somewhat
avoided his friend Jack Stoneby at this time 
good cause as he had to love and bless Jack.

Stoneby, of course, saw plainly enough what
was coming, and was not, upon the whole,
certain of what he himself desired.

He desired Portland's happiness, and Rosamund's
happiness  and what with time and

A STIFF-DECKED GENERATION.

absence, and the never having had any hopes
for himself, joined to the advent of a very
nice, and pretty, and amiable young lady in
the neighbourhood, he was able quite cheerfully
to unite the two in his mind  but he did
feel he should have liked to have had some
sign from Gilbert first.

For some weeks after Gilbert's departure,
while Rosamund still lay hovering between
life and death, Stoneby had conscientiously
fulfilled his promise of letting her former
lover know her state, and had duly received
a few words of thanks in reply to each communication.
From these he had learned that
Major Gilbert had exchanged into a regiment
ordered to Burma, and the last note received
from him had been from the frontier there.

There he was, and there he was likely to befor
long enough  doing a little fighting, and
running odds and ends of risks ; but the great
war for which his soul thirsted was nowhere
to be found. The world was unusually quieta
dozen years ago.

I wish he could see some action," said
Jack to himself, as he folded up the latest
missive  "it would do Gilbert more good
than anything; and perhaps if that were to
intervene between him and his past disappointment,
what with activity and hard work,
and all the things he would have to think of
and to do, he would learn to judge more
kindly of poor Portland, and be able to send
him a message. The worst of it is, that I fear
the whole thing will slip from his memory.
These sort of affairs take so little hold of a
man engaged in active life ; and he will naturally
not care to recall this more than he can
help. He may have got somebody else by this
time," added the young man, with a little nod
to himself  and he went and paid a visit to
his " somebody else," that very afternoon.

It was a mild, showery day, almost too
warm for the time of year, and with no suggestion
of the blustering autumn winds yet
in store.

Rosamund, wandering about among the late

roses in the old, unfashionable rosery at the
bottom of the garden, was hidden from view-between
the tall briary hedges, and somewhat
sharply taxed for being so by Catharine, who
at four o'clock came to seek her, post-bag in
hand.

You knew the afternoon post would becoming
in," she said. " It is too bad of you
to give me all this run after you."

I never asked you to run after me ; " and
the speaker's tone added, " nor did I want you
to do it."

I supposed you would like to have your
letters?"

You supposed you would like to know what
was in them." Eosamund could yet turn the
tables in a neat retort, and, truth to tell, she did
not allow herself to get altogether out of practice.
She did not care in the slightest degree
about her letters that day, and she did care
about being left to her rose-garden solitude,
and perhaps just a little also about another
interruption to it which had now and again

happened before, and which might as likely as
not happen again,  but which Catharine's presence
would inevitably mar. " I don't suppose
they are of any consequence," she added, holding
out an ungracious hand.

Oh, but they are  at least, they are very
interesting to look at from the outside," said
Catharine, prudently waiving further discussion,
and the risk of a quarrel, for the sake
of gratifying her curiosity. "They look like
invitations."

They were invitations. The October shooting
dinner-parties were now being arranged,
and people generally w T ere beginning to think
that King's Common had done its part in the
way of mourning and retirement, and that the
widower was ready to be consoled, or at any
rate to be beguiled, by the seductions of a little
neighbourly society.

One and all had concluded that at any rate
he might be tried : and that Rosamund also
might be tried.

It was said that she did not mean to go out

that would be ridiculous. Every one knew
that the poor girl had suffered enough ; and
she was so young, and had been so neglected
(poor Lady Caroline !)  that it would be
cruel to visit her sins heavily on her head.

And undoubtedly there would be also something
interesting in Eosamund Liscard just
now, which would add to her attractions in the
eyes of all who heard her story,  something to
whisper about and nod about,  something to
make a hostess grateful for. So that, considering
how seldom it is that a poor county
lady, buried in respectability and domestic
interests, has even the faintest flavour of spice
to throw into her ingredients for a shooting
dinner-party, the writers of the several gilt-edged
notes which Catharine now eagerly produced,
may be pardoned if they were a little
early in the day in sending them, and a little
anxious about their acceptance.

Mr and Miss Liscard," read out she, enviously,
as they were opened one by one. " I
suppose you will go ? I could hardly go till

next spring, unless  I shall be seventeen, you
know, directly ; so that if you "

There, take them ! They are all of the
same order," cried her sister, hastily thrusting
the packet back upon her. "You can
ask papa about them. Ask him now, if you
like. He is at home "

"No, he is not; he is gone for his

walk."

He w r went in this minute,  I saw him.
He had forgotten a letter he had to write."
"And what am I to ask him?"
About these, of course," impatiently.
What is to be done about them ? I think
myself that it is too soon for us to dine out
yet. I think we,  or at any rate he, ought tolet
a year pass ; but I will do as he wishes."

I could go, you know, if you "

Well, go then,  you may go for me "

Do you really mean that ? May I consult
with papa ? "

Yes, consult with papa  go in now and
consult with him  oh, that will do," as Catharine's

mouth was opening to begin again, 
"I tell you, you may go if you want; only
do not stand arguing and expounding there

the words were scarcely out of her lips,

ere their astonished auditor, in terror of a revocation,
and already conning over the means
by which she could with propriety carry out
so delightful a permission (she told herself she
did not mind in the least Rosamond's being
cross over it), sped off like the wind, and the
latter's end was attained.

She was alone ; and only a large black-edged
envelope remained in her hand, which neither
the one sister, nor the other, dreamed could
contain anything worth any one's waiting
for.

It was probably some milliner's or dressmaker's
bill ; and the person chiefly interested
in these, did not covet over-much being present
when one of them came in. Catharine's spring
orders had been tolerably extensive, and had
somewhat startled even herself by the sum-total
to which they had mounted,  she would not, on

account of some tiresome showman, delay-seeking
out dear papa, and telling him what
Rosamund had said  (it was a way of this
young diplomatist's always to father a sentiment
of her own on somebody else when
possible)  and accordingly, she was well out
of sight ere the other absently undid the
fastenings of the despised document.

The next moment saw it despised no longer.

"Emily Gilbert!" she exclaimed aloud, as
the signature in large letters caught her eye,
" Emily Gilbert ! And writing to me !
What is it  what can it be ? "

With feverish haste her eye flew over the
page, and the blood seemed to surge back
from her heart.

He was dead  the man who had loved and
lost her.

Dead ! She paused to think, to understand.
Dead ! How dead ? Dead ! Yes, the words
were there, unmistakably there.

He had been killed in a night-sortie among
the frontier mountains, some weeks before.

VOL. III. T

Some weeks before ! And she  she had
never heard, had never been told, and had
been going on her way, contented and happy ;
even beginning to  to  her cheek burned
all over with a deep crimson flush.

Gilbert dead  some time dead  and she
had not even mourned him !

That, for a few moments, swallowed up
every other thought and emotion.

But how had she not heard  how not
known ?

The writer explained that only now had
her poor brother's effects arrived at his sorrowing
home; and that she thought it probable
Miss Liscard had not noticed the record
of his death in the newspapers, there having
been a mistake in the name which no one had
cared to rectify till too late. She now only
intruded, poor Emily wrote  a mournful indignation
shadowing; itself forth beneath the
humility  she only intruded because the enclosed
had been found among her brother's
papers. As the enclosed had been addressed

to Miss Liscard, she had felt that Miss Lis-card
would like to have it, or that at least
they ought to send it.

In the whole there was a pitiful attempt
at dignity which was hardly successful. Just
where the brother would have succeeded, the
sister failed.

Eosamund, however, was in no mood to
carp. The strange, sudden, terrible tidings
were enough ; the little packet with her name
upon it in writing once so familiar  could
she have eyes for aught beside ?

The paper had a dark-red stain upon it.

Dear," it ran, " I feel to-night, although I
know not why, as if I must write one word to
you for the last  last time. I had never
meant that you should hear from me again ;
but neither will you, unless the strange forebodings
which have haunted me so unceasingly
of late, prove to be true. I will bear
this in my bosom, and only by my death shall
it find its way to you. It may be a weak
fancy, Eosamund, but I seem to feel that the

end is coming at last, and coming soon. I
have not sought death, but neither have I
shunned it. I have hoped for it, and expected
it, and I think I shall have it, perhaps
before many hours are over. There has been
an outbreak among the natives here, and who
knows to what extent the mischief may not
have spread ? It is a wild, dark night, and
we are going out upon the hills-in search of
the rebels. They tell me these rebels give no
quarter. Why should they ? We give them
none. . . . Oh, Rosamund, Rosamund, why
are you with me, day and night, day and
night now? I am looking at you as I
write. I see you standing there in the dim
light. I hear your voice ; I almost feel your
breath. Where are you ? I wonder what
you are doing. I wonder if you are happy.
My dear, if my love would have made
you so, you had it all  you have it now :
whether I live or die, I am yours only, and
yours wholly. But mine was not enough. Be
Portland's wife then, if you can love him.

I know he loves you. Marry him, and remember
that this is what I wish and desire.
I no longer doubt him ; I feel convinced that
I never ought to have doubted him, and you
must tell him so,  when he tells you, as he
will, what once I felt. I have written to him
a few words also. He may like to have them
straight from me. Why need I mind saying
more ? I shall have left this world if your
eye ever falls upon these pages, and why
should I not tell you that I humbly hope 1
shall have left it for a better ? Rosamund, by
the grace of God the ruin of my earthly happiness
has been the means of leading me to
seek it from a higher source. I turned to my
Maker, and He heard me, and will receive me.
May He bless you, preserve you, keep you,

make you happy here and hereafter "

The writing ended in a pale smear : a summons
had come in haste, and the hand that
had dropped the pen, had lain stiff and powerless
ere the morrow's light had dawned.

The paper had been thrust into his bosom,

as he had said, and had been there  the dark
stain told when.

With bursting sighs and blinding tears she
hung over the page, at times invisible and
almost incomprehensible. How often had she
wondered what would be the end ?  What the
years would bring ?  Whether he would forget ?
Would suffer his wound to be gently healed ?
Would ever again cross her path ?

And now in that far-off clime he had fallen
not gloriously as in the field, leading his
men to victory with the sound of trumpet
and the clang of arms,  but in some dismal,
unknown spot, nameless and unhonoured. To
this, she cried  to this her hand had driven
him ! Great Heaven ! was she never to come
to the end of that harvest of her thoughtless
sowing ?

True, his sorrow had brought him a rich
return, but in that she had had no share. The
one had been of her making, but not the
other ; and can we blame her if at the moment
this was the pang that was uppermost ?

A step upon the gravel  a voice in her ear.
"I think," said a man's deep undertone, subdued
to tenderness unmistakable  " I think,
Eosamund, that we have both heard the same
tidings. . . . Shall I show you mine ? "
But she scarcely knew whether his arm enfolded
her, or whether she clung to him ;
whether he or she held the new letter ; or
whether she read with his eyes or her own.

You are a man of honour," it ran. " If I
ever tried to doubt it, time and reflection
have proved too strong for me. But I think
I always believed in you, Lord Portland 
though it was a kind of opiate to my pain to
resolve that I did not. To-night I go into
action, and before going I shall write to Rosamond.
Show her this. Win her if you can.
Make her happy."

The command had been obeyed on the
instant.

. . " Have I made you happy ? " said
Portland, a few years afterwards. " Have I

done all I ever hoped and vowed to do ? Is
there anything you desire, anything I can
give you, anything that would make my Rosamond
happier? What? There is? Speak,
dearest  I can trust you. You have but to
name your wish. You shall go where you
will, do w T hat you will "

The answer came so low that he could
scarcely catch it 

I want to see his grave."

A few words in conclusion about the other
personages who have played their parts before
our readers.

And first, for Lady Julia. Her cup was
now full to the brim, and would have run
and bubbled over, but for the little daily
friction occasioned by the sight of Catharine
reigning unchecked, and in all her glory, at
King's Common. Had she known how long
that reign was to last  extending until the
very sight of her name as Miss Liscard became
odious in the eyes of the thin-visaged, sharp-voiced

spinster, suitor after suitor having been
frightened away by her ill-concealed shrewishness,
and the subjection of her only remaining
parent  even Aunt Julia would have been
satisfied. As it was, it was perhaps really as
well that the good aunt had that crumpled
rose-leaf, all the rest of her bed was so wondrous
easy.

Rosamund, with a chastened spirit and
nobler views of life, growing ever gentler and
tenderer, while regaining yearly more and
more of the radiance of her youth in the sunshine
of such a home, was perhaps the first
darling of her heart. But Portland was a
close second  and deserved it. He, too, could
never show her affection enough.

Mr Liscard never re - entered the married
state, getting on fairly well without a
second wife,  though it was said of him
that he never again had so good a time, as
during that first year of his widowhood, and
more especially during the three first months
of it.

Mrs Wakefield, on hearing of Rosamond's
new engagement, made no remark of any
kind ; not choosing to animadvert ; and perhaps
not feeling drawn towards exhibiting any
very exuberant demonstrations of pleasure.
Perhaps these could hardly have been expected
of her. Diana was out, too, by this
time.

Jack Stoneby married well and happily, but
kept his secret  a secret of which neither
Lord nor Lady Portland ever had the slightest
suspicion  to the end of his life.

Clementina also married, having found out
that the next best thing to a devoted brother,
is a devoted husband.

Billy Barley throve apace, and had to be
incessantly watched and scolded, or he would
have had a dip in the mill-dam again as regularly
as the summer came round, in spite of his
father's pride in pointing at him and saying,
Ay, it's nought but a corp that boy there o'
ours would ha' been this day, if it hadn't been
for one of the grandest gentlemen i' the land,

who's gone himself now  the Lord bless his
memory ! n . . .

It was said of Lady Portland in after
years, that nothing could be more beautiful
and touching than the care with which she
began to train her little troop of high-spirited
sons and daughters, even from their
cradles.

It was one of the rules of her life to mark
and learn the character of each child ; to win
the confidence of all ; and to give her own
in return.

She never sought to master them by sheer
dint of strength and will, nor to override them
with the upper hand ; still less to provoke them
by her prejudices and unreasonableness, to
assert their crude and immature judgments in
defiance of her own.

But what was perhaps more effectual than
even this, was the humility and readiness with
which, so soon as she found herself mistaken,
or learned that she had been in error, Rosamund
was willing to avow it.

Such example could not fail to have more
effect than any amount of precept ; and it is
therefore not to be wondered at that the
children of such a mother, though by no
means likely to become either a tame or timid
crew, were, on the other hand, tolerably sure
never to draw upon themselves the epithet of
A Stiff-necked Generation.

