CHAPTER I.

A WINDY NIGHT.

But when that the cloud lays its cheek to the flood,
And the wave lays its shoulder to the shore,
When the wind sings high, and the sea-whaup cry,
As they rise from the deafening roar, 

0, merry he sits 'man his jovial crew,

Wi' the helm-heft in his hand,
And he sings aloud to his boys in blue,
As his ee's on th Gallowa land. "

- AiNSLIE.

The wind was blowing in from the sea, and the
waves were thundering along the rugged coast
of Galloway, one wild and dusky evening towards
the latter end of September.

In vain did the flickering sunset struggle fora
corner of the heavens  it was speedily overcast
; and invisible then was the long line of

white-capped breakers, whose steady beat upon
the land could be heard far and near, ere they
surged over the rocks, rolling in their treasures
of weed, and grass, and broken shells before
them.

Far as the eye could reach, it was a bleak and
lonely region over which, unchecked, the sea-breeze
made its way.

The moorlands were wastes of bog and moss,
surmounted by the red waving grass peculiar to
the district ; the woods were mere clumps of
trees roughly huddled together,  and these being
perpetually bent before the prevailing blast,
presented, from their stunted growth and misshapen
boughs, an air of sorrowful endurance,
which was heightened almost to the pitch of
pathos when winter displayed their bare and
interlaced branches.

Solitary stragglers with the same woe-worn
aspect, dotted the fields, affording, in their battered
'and beaten-down condition, a series of
roofs for the black cattle of the country, who in
bad weather cowered underneath.

Between the villages, which lay at a considerable
distance from each other, there were but
few dwelling-houses, and only at long intervals

were tracts of land separated from one another
by walls of loosely - piled stones. These last
were viewed, on the evening in question, with
especial ill - will by *a sportsman who, at the
close of a successful day's fishing, was making
his way down from the moor, and who, encumbered
as he was with his rod, his creel, and
various good trout of creditable size and weight,
found getting over the tottering obstacles no
easy matter.

Supporting himself, however, by an occasional
interjection, and by the consideration that if he
could once gain the highroad he should proceed
much more rapidly, he bade defiance to the
roughness of the way and the buffeting of the
elements, and stepped forward with as good
a heart as could be expected from a wet and
weary man, who sees a neighbourhood with
which he is at best but imperfectly acquainted,
rapidly becoming obscured in the
twilight.

Captain Eupert Evelyn  for such was the
stranger s name  had been from an early hour
stumbling about among moss-hags, peat-marshes,
and stony beds of mountain-torrents which only
burst forth during the floods of winter ; and had

he allowed himself to own the truth, he must
have confessed that nothings would now have
gladdened his eyes more than the view, within
a reasonable distance, of Castle Kenrick, the
friend's house at which he was then staying.

Having, however, declined the attendance of
a guide or keeper, asserting roundly that he had
never lost his way in his life, and that, moreover,
he knew every inch of the road down
from the country above to the little port near
which the hospitable mansion stood, towards
which his steps were to be at eventide directed,
he felt that he had no right to grumble, and
that he ought to suffer, without even an inward
protest, such protracted inconvenience as arose
from his taking a round instead of the direct
path, which a native of the district would probably
have pointed out.

Nor did he disobey the monitor's voice ;  the
more gloomy and peevish grew the sky, and the
more penetrating the blast, the more doggedly
and silently he faced it : but unconsciously his
steps slackened, and his eyes wistfully searched
the landscape at every opportunity.

If I had not to face the wind," he considered,
*'I could get along well enough; but.

however, I knew in the morning I should have
to fight my way back."

The reminiscence might be consoling, but the
battle became increasingly hard to sustain ; nor
was our wayfarer in any way reassured by hopes
of its having a speedy termination.

Heights were climbed, points were rounded,
and level pieces of land were steadily left behind;
but although on each occasion he promised
himself a joyful surprise behind the ever-renewed
veil in front, he was doomed only to
repeated and vexatious disappointment.

At length a sharper turn of the road than
usual, on a promontory only a short distance
off, gave the required fillip to his spirits, which
enabled him to brace himself stoutly to the
ascent ; and though serious misgivings had now
taken the place of his first lurking qualms of
uneasiness, he gained the summit at a brisk
pace.

Alas for human incredulity !

The gathering dusk hid, it is true, much of
the prospect now opened up,  and well was it
for our unlucky pedestrian that it did, since,
had the light been good, he must have viewed
the road he was traversing still wending its

endless way on ahead, a broad white mark on
the hillside,  but although such a vision was
mercifully withheld, enough still remained to
confound and subdue.

Headlands upon which the sea was raging,
bleak and desolate reaches of moor above,
thickets black under the murky sky, alone met
his bewildered gaze.

He stopped short, sat down, and pulled a
long, grave, miserable face.

Now was the time for soliloquy. An experienced
soliloquist might have made anything
he chose out of such a situation : there was an
opportunity, such as rarely is given, for plaint
composed of retrospection, apprehension, distraction,
and a dozen other such mental sensations,
whereof we, the chroniclers, might have
had the benefit  and it would have saved us
some trouble in the way of explanation if we
had,  but this fool of an Evelyn never opened
his lips.

He was in a mess, and he saw no way out of
it. The storm was increasing momentarily; and
no habitation, neither cottage nor castle, was
visible anywhere.

Fate, however, taking pity on the baffled

wretch, who was obviously punished to the full
extent of his demerits, presently sent his way a
deliverer, in the" shape of a stout country wife,
who had been following in his wake for some
distance, and who caught him up at this point.
From her he could at least ascertain the extent
of his misfortunes.

Hey ! " said Evelyn, briskly. " Look here.
Can you tell me how far it is to Castle
Kenrickr'

The woman stopped to listen.

*' Well ? " continued her interrogator. ' Eh '?
Did you not hear me ? Bother this wind !
Castle Kenrick ? " in a louder key. '* Castle
Kenrick ? How far ? "

Warbling wi' the wind, sir, I canna hear ye."

"Castle Kenrick 1" bawled Evelyn, at the
pitch of his voice. " Castle Fenwick ? How
far is it from here ? "

Could say, sir. I hear ye noo. Could
say, I'm sure. It's a windy night."

Windy  humph ! Can t you give a guess
at least ? A mile, or two miles, or more ? "

"A mile or twa, or mair? Weel,  maybe
mair."

Is it not down in the bay there 1 "

Dour in the bay yonder '? Down yonder 1
Castle Kenrick?"

"Where is it, in heaven's name?" cried
Evelyn, losing patience at last. " Confound the
place ! "

Hint ye, sir,  hint ye. Oo, ye hae cam the
wrong road, I'm thinking'. Castle Kenrick is
over by," pointing backwards with her finger.
'ran I had kenned ye sought Castle Kenrick,
I wad hae cried on ye lang syne  though maybe,"
she added, on reflection, '' ye michtna hae
heard muckle o' me."

'' Probably not."

Weel, but ye nun just turn ye round,
and baud your way straight back the road ye
cam "

'' V\\ do nothing of the sort."

*' An' gang over the bridge "

'' I tell you I won't."

Ye ken M'Cracken s farm ? "

Now look here," said the young man, with
decision, " I'm not going near M'Cracken's farm
to-night. In half an hour more it will be as
dark as pitch, and I shan't see to put one foot
in front of another. It's blowing a gale, besides.
As likely as not I should be found at the bottom

of some of these cliffs by morning. You take
me home with you ''

Hame wi' me ! Gudesakes ! " ejaculated the
dame, in not unnatural amazement. 'sand
what may you be ? But I ask your pardon,
you are a gentleman frae Castle Kenrick. But
I cinna ken ; a bit place like ours is no' for
quality, unless it be to come in and tak' a
rest ''

*' Ay, that's it. Let me come in and take a
rest. Now, it's no use shouting on into each
other's faces any longer. Come along, my good
woman, and let's get indoors for better, for worse.
Why, where are you making for; are we not to
keep to the road ? "

"This is the road for us," replied his companion,
who, having picked up the heavy basket
which she had rested on the ground during the
interview, was now kilting up her coats, as she
expressed it, to clamber over a low wall at the
side, where Evelyn could now perceive that a
sort of breach had been made, as though for
the purpose.

There was, however, no footpath nor clearing
on the other side ; and as his guide ran down
the bank with the agility of a girl, he was astonished,

on following, to find himself almost
immediately confronted by a cotter's hut, which,
snugly ensconced among the brushwood, might
even by daylight have been passed by undetected
from above.

This will do very well," reflected our soldier;
''I do not return to Castle Kenrick tonight.
Brewster will know perfectly well that
I have lost my way  the commonest thing in
the world in Scotland ; and I can have another
turn at the stream before I need put in an appearance
tomorrow. On the whole, I could not
have fared better."

A quick imagination had settled the matter
thus, even in the few seconds which elapsed
between the request being preferred and granted ;
and the same lively fancy had conjured up subsequently
a scene which enabled our soldier to
think lightly of all previous disaster, and even
to consider with some enjoyment so romantic a
termination to his day on the moor.

As he ran down the bank he beheld himself
speedily made welcome to the best that the
vaunted hospitality of the Scottish peasantry
could offer, partaking of a clean and comfortable
supper, whereof his own trout should bethe

mainstay; next forming one of a circle round
a blazing peat-fire, and smoking by its cheerful
glimmer the friendly pipe ; and finally sleeping
the sleep of the just  or, at least, of the sound
in wind and limb  on a couch which, though
rough, should be bleached white as the driven
snow.

No wonder that, hungry, tired, and wet as he
was, there was something in such a vision even
more alluring to his jaded senses than in the
recollection of the splendid saloon, gay company,
and dress - clothes awaiting him in vain
at the Castle. The latter, at least, he could well
dispense with.

The door opened, and he was invited to
enter.

Oh bitter, cruel disappointment ! The peat-reek
for which he had mentally bargained did
indeed, with overwhelming energy, assail his nostrils,
 since it filled the house, unable to find
vent in such a wind ; but in every other respect,
a single moment's survey was sufficient
to show that the fair fabric he had reared so
happily was founded on sand.

It vanished at the first glance.

The room into which he was conducted, and

in which three men were already lolling at
their ease, was small, suffocatingly close, and
wretchedly dirty. Furniture blocked it upon
every side ; and instead of the smouldering
fiery furnace, overhung by the seething caldron,
which his too sanguine spirit had forecast, a
dull fire, nearly out, filled a small portion of a
modern grate.

No preparations for a meal,  no scones, oat-cakes,
nor girdle-cakes were visible anywhere,
but a bowl of uncooked potatoes stood on the
low window-sill, and a child of two or three
years of age was seated on the floor, busily engaged
in mashing a raw herring to pieces with
a pewter spoon.

The sight was sickening, joined as it was to
a faint, disagreeable odour, which, Evelyn concluded,
came from a row of wet clothes suspended
on a string across a portion of the
ceiling ; and although not over-nice nor unaccustomed
to hardships, it was with difficulty
that he mastered his disgust sufficiently to
prevent his turning sharp round and walking
out of the hut as unceremoniously as he had
walked in.

"Hoots, ye lang loons, to let down my fire

on sic a night, an me at the town," began his
guide, but without any real resentment or vexation
in her tone. " Mattie, my dawtie, let
that fishes alone. Wull ye no ? Oo, ye re an
abbot "  (Anglice, spoilt child)  '' that ye are !
An here's a gentleman speer' for his supper
an' his bed, an' me that sir forfoughten "

What's keepit ye *? " growled one of the men.

'ran what's the gentleman's wull at this
time o' the night ? " said another. '' There's
nathan' here for gentlemen; but we nun a' do
your pleasure, nae coot," ironically.

'sakes, gudeman, it's sma' pleasure to me.*
But sit ye down, sir  sit ye down. I'm thinking'
a grapple frae this "  producing a black whisky-bottle
 '' wad be weel for you and for me.
Hey then ? What for no 1 " in surprise as her
visitor turned away.

With whatever goodwill such an overture
might have been met at another time, under
present circumstances it was the last straw
breaking the camel's back ; and although it is
possible that its flat rejection was in a measure
owing to there being a half-filled flask still in
the pocket of the guest, it was due still more to
the nausea the whole spectacle awakened.

How to beat a retreat, however, was the difficulty.
He could not stay. Could he possibly
go ? Would not the men, ill-tempered, and surly
as they were, while indisposed for his company,
nevertheless resent his departure ? Even the
woman, who had herself demurred at the first,
was now endeavouring, by a series of " Sit ye
down, sirs," to inveigle the unfortunate visitor
into one of the crazy chairs with which the place
abounded. Could he escape, and not make
them, one and all, wrathful 1

We tell this to show the sort of man Evelyn was.
He never hesitated after the first moment,
and that moment's pause betokened merely reluctance
to wound the feelings of any one, of
any degree. The instant his mind was made up
he achieved his purpose,  and that by no aid but
that of simple address, politeness, and pluck, for
he had neither purse nor pence with him, and
he did not even leave his trout behind to share
the fate of the mangled herring.

He found himself now once again at the
mercy of the wind and rain, well out of the
scrape as regarded the filthy den into which
his own precipitation had led him, but still no
nearer than he had been a quarter of an hour

before towards attaining any desirable end to
his adventures. The only thing he had gained
was the knowledge that he had been for the
past hour and a half walking away from his
destination instead of to it. The wind had
shifted its quarter, and had deceived him.

With the increase of the gale  which, gathering
vehemence with a flowing tide, threatened a
hurricane before night  the rain, however, had
ceased. He might hope, by trudging steadily
back, to reach Castle Kenrick drier than he was
as he now stood, and he would have the boisterous
blast at his back all the way.

With a sigh he was preparing to start, when
a curious panting sound, like a breathless but
urgent whisper into his very ear, startled him
into dropping his fishing-rod and uttering a
loud shout.

' I beg your pardons' said the voice, distinctly
this time. *' I am afraid I alarmed you,
but I could not make you hear, and I was sure
something was the matter'' Even in the midst
of so short an explanation a squall carried off
the speaker, and swung her round till she was
several feet off, and the end of the sentence was
lost.

VOL. I. B

This, however, was of no consequence.

Evelyn beheld a slight feminine form, shawled
and wrapped to the chin ; and although the features
could be but dimly traced in the flickering
light, and the utterances be but indistinctly
caught, he fancied that it was not the face, nor
yet the voice, of a common labourer's daughter.

Here's another chance ! " cried he to himself.
"And better luck this time."

As well as he could, he then entered upon his
pitiable case, and learned that his dejected and
irresolute attitude had arrested the attention of
the fair Samaritan, and that on speaking twice,
and receiving no response, she had compassionately
feared that distress or illness must be the
cause.

On finding that all the wants of our stranger
were comprised into a direction where to bend
his steps, or rather into pity for his having
already taken the wrong one, she was about to
hurry on, perhaps a thought more hastily than
if she had found in the object of her gentle inquiries
an aged, or a sick, or a poor man ; but
this could not be borne.

(" Cheated out of her sympathy," concluded
Evelyn. " But not so fast, my kindly lass.

This swindling road and I part company once
again and forthwith, or I am far mistaken.
Here is another, and a more comely, good angel
sent to my assistance : where she goes, I go ;
and though I may not progress so far as to say,
Her people shall be my people,' I shall certainly
hope to make their speedy acquaintance") "I
I am not very well," he said, looking at his
interlocutor out of the tail of his eye.

So I was afraid. Can I do anything for
you ? " half turning back.

"Is there nowhere nearer here than Castle
Kenrick, where  where  indeed I very much
fear T shall not be able to walk as far ; I scarcely
can hope to reach it to-night. If there were
any little inn, or farmhouse  any hut, hovel,
or shed, where I could be harboured till morning
" the wind opportunely blew him back

as he stood. " Ah ! " cried he, staggering, " I
could not stand much of this."

His companion stood still.

You do not know of any ? " proceeded
Evelyn, as though she had spoken. " Thanks :
never mind, then ; I must do my best. Good
evening. Perhaps I may fall in with a shepherd
oh ?  all within doors, you say 1 Well, it

can't be helped. I wish I were, but it is of no
use wishing  what ? I am to come home with

you ? Oh % That is very kind, but " The

wind again. Whenever it came in handy, he
let it have at him for the nonce,  he was not
altogether without guile.

Charmed as he was to find that his dolorous
accents had been thus successful, he was scarcely
able to retain them on receiving the answer to
his next question as to the distance they must
traverse before reaching the proffered shelter.

'' Five minutes," said the girl, " will take us
there."

Five minutes ! " cried Evelyn, and added an
internal  Hurrah!" which the necessity for
keeping up appearances induced him. to suppress
all outward sign of ; and it may as well be confessed,
that so well open did the wily suppliant
keep his eyes to future contingencies, that he
reflected forthwith whether a slight limp  which
should, however, not be suffered to impede their
progress  might not be added to his misfortunes,
as soon as they were within sight of the door
they sought. He was not so absolutely convinced
of the hospitality of the Scottish people
as he had been half an hour before.

Five minutes r' he exclaimed; then dropping
his tone, but not too low, lest it should be inaudible,
" Oh, how thankful I am 1" So excellently
did he simulate the aspect of a spent and
toil-worn wretch who is too far gone to take any
heed of the nature of the proffered relief, provided
it be only easily attainable, that, in answer
to his further suggestion that they should set
forth at once, his guide immediately obeyed,
only pausing to hope that her pace was not too
fast for him.

*' Thank you. I do pretty well." (It would
have done him no manner of harm to have had
another dozen miles added to what he had already
walked.) " Do not slacken speed on my
account," continued Evelyn, with indomitable
resolution; "as long as I can, I will keep up
with you."

The angry gusts, which continued to bang the
two about unmercifully, made him conclude to
dispense with any further provocative of compassion
; and presently observing how severely the
slight fissure at his side was buffeted from side
to side, he so far forgot himself as to attempt to
give her shelter.

Look here, keep to the leeward of me," he

said, good-hum surely ; " you can't keep your
feet on the ground. Take my arm, and it will
be something to hold on by," and suiting the
action to the word, he took her hand, not rudely,
but still with the freedom of a superior performing
a kindly act of condescension.

Much to his astonishment, however, the hand,
which was bare, and felt very small and soft in
his grasp, was snatched hastily away, and at the
same moment a break in the clouds permitted a
stream of light from the moon, which had now
arisen, to descend on a face which, had a single
minute more been vouchsafed him for observation,
he could have sworn was that of a maiden
in his own rank of life, and of a very beautiful
one.

LUXUPvY.

The storm without might rave and rustle,
Tam diana mind the storm a whistle."

Tam d Chanter.

The immediate effect of this revelation on the
mind of the supposed invalid was to cause him
to lose sight altogether of the character he was
playing.

He pressed forward, straining his eyes to see
what sort of an abode might harbour so fair a
blossom ; and although, a few minutes before, he
would have been only too well pleased with the
prospect of such excellent accommodation as
met his view, he was now unreasonably disconcerted
at the sight of a plainly-built, square,
whitewashed farmhouse, perched upon the
cliff in the most exposed and unkindly spot
that the ingenuity of builder could suggest.

A rambling wall, here and there overhung by
the bent boughs of a tree, enclosed a small piece
of ground on one side, and a deeply-rutted foot-road
led through several gates up to the entrance-door
on the other ; but as this path  for it was
little more  struck away towards the right side
of the headland upon which the small domain
was situated, whereas Evelyn and his guide had
crossed the open fields on the left, they only had
the advantage, if advantage it could be called,
of pursuing it when within a very short distance
of the house.

The opening and shutting of the last gate,
and another temporary gleam of light, which
burst from betwixt the dark masses of cloud
above, at the precise moment when it was being
held back for the lady to pass through, afforded
her fellow-traveller another chance look at her
face ; but, while mentally anathematising the
shade of her hat, which was closely pressed down
in order to keep it from being blown away, his
observations were further hindered, and finally
put to rout altogether, by the vagaries of a long
fringed and perversely-minded shawl, which,
flying up in front by fits and starts, presently
obscured every feature.

So much as he could glean, however, was
enough to tantalise. They now gained the door,
and for a few minutes the stranger was enjoined
to remain where he was; but he had scarcely
had time to decide whether it might be necessary
to take up again the hypocritical rule he had
at first assumed, or whether he had not already
cast it off too entirely to admit of its resumption,
before he found himself face to face with a stout,
elderly yeoman, who, in the heartiest of tones
and broadest of accents, was bidding him enter.

I am afraid I am come under false pretences,"
he then tried to say, instantly deciding
to take his cheery host into confidence, and have
a laugh at the whole affair ; but he was permitted
to get no further.

It was immaterial on what pretences he came.
He was there, and that was enough ; he could
not be too often assured that he was welcome.
Whenever he would have spoken he was cut
short : the sturdy farmer would hear neither
apology nor explanation ; and only when both
ceased to be offered, consented to permit any one
but himself to put in a word.

His daughter  for such Evelyn concluded his
late guide to be  did not reappear ; but en assured

as our hero ought certainly to have been
by all the laws of romance, it must be confessed
that he experienced on this account neither
anxiety nor uneasiness, being content to wait,
and to occupy himself, as soon as the assiduities
of his new friend would permit, in unfeeling the
line of his fishing-rod and emptying his basket.
Pretty faces he could see by the score any day
he chose, but to his ears no sound had ever
seemed more musical than Farmer Combine's.
'' Come ben the loose, sir, and mak' yersel' at
hame. I'm proud to do ye a service, and fain
to hae the pleasure o' your company''

He was now housed for the night ; and shame
to tell, that was the thought which was uppermost
in the young man's mind.

To the courteous invitation he made a spirited
and suitable rejoinder, and looking around him
with the utmost good-humour, mentally contrasted
the ample and comfortable apartment
which now met his view, with the dark and
odorous hovel into which he had at first stumbled.
That recollection was now only a source
of delight, and the castle in the air it had so
ruthlessly destroyed was returned, an actual and
solid structure, on his hands.

He could not conceal his pleasure.

The spacious .best room at the Muirland Farm
was neither parlour nor kitchen, but partook of
the best attributes of both. It was a room to
be used, sat in, smoked in : up the huge chimney,
if the night were chill and raw, flickering
2 blue wreaths that had no thin oj to do with
the fire below would find their way. But the
polished floor, only partially carpeted, and the
thick close shutters which made curtains unnecessary,
told no tales : all was as sweet, fresh, and
wholesome as the most fastidious could desire.

Within the massive fireplace logs of oak and
fir arched upwards against each other, emitting
a broad blaze which spread to the furthest corners
of the room ; and although it might have
seemed as if such a furnace were hardly needed
merely to warm, in Evelyn's eyes it would have
been ill replaced by the flicker of a smaller fire.

Nor would he have exchanged the ancient, curia
arm-chairs, tall timepiece, and
square centre-table, for more genteel furniture.

All was in keeping.

The fury of the blast without, joined now to
the rattle of the rain upon the window-panes
as a passing shower flew overhead, sounded

delightfully in his ears ; his eye kindled with
animation ; and as lie took off his cap and
stepped forward into the light, with his hair
straying over his brow, and the colour in his
cheek, a finer, bolder, handsomer young gallant
had seldom been seen north of the Tweed. So
at least thought Comline's buxom dame, who,
by no means insensible to the pleasure of entertaining
such a visitor, and  a great point with
housewives  of being taken at a lucky moment,
being found at her best by him, without foreknowledge
or preparation on her part, was no
whit behind her husband in hospitality.

You'll be wet, sir, and weary. This is an ill
night to be overtaken on the muir. We're proud
to see you, sir, I'm sure. And though this is
no' Castle Kenrick, yet it's on the property.
Castle Kenrick is but nine miles off. The wrong
turn you took was violins six miles frae here ; 1
ken the turn weel  there's nae sign nor nathan'
to guide folks by "

'' He sold hae tried the ' airt o' the clichy,' "
interposed her husband ; " that wad ha been the
way  eh, gudewife ? "

' The airt o' the clichy ? ' " said Evelyn, who,
although sufficiently accustomed to the broad

dialect of the Scottish Lowlanders to enable
him to follow what was said, though he might
not catch the meaning of every word, yet was
but imperfectly acquainted with their customs
and maxims. " The ' airt o' the clichy ' ? what
is that 1 ''

It was explained to him that the so-called
airt " consists in the bewildered traveller's
poising his staff or crook perpendicularly in the
air over the road which perplexes him, and then
leaving it to itself. Whichever direction the
stick falls in, that he is bound to pursue.

*' And by doing yon' maintained the gudeman,
with a defiant look at his tittering spouse, * ye
wad hae been at Castle Kenrick twa hours syne,
ay, an' mair."

"Weel, weel," quoth Mrs Comline, begging
the impending question, " that's as it may be.
Castle Kenrick, or no Castle Kenrick, we'll do
our best ; and as I was saying', sir, we're on the
property. The laird was here himsel' only a
few days syne. Sitting' in yon chair for his
crack and his joke. He never passes by wi'oot
looking: in, an it be but for his tumbler of new
milk. When I see him coming, I run for the
milk ; and whiles he says, ' Mistress, I cam' foot

o' my way a gude lang round just to get my
milk Pair thing ! Tramping' the heather a day
lang, nae wonder he's dorothy. But"  with
sudden recollection  "here I stand, talk, talk,
and you just weary in' for your supper, and wet
through, forbye. Come up the stair, sir, up this
way, and Robin will fetch you a change."

Bending her back to the steep staircase, the
kind-hearted old woman led the way, only
pausing when the top was reached, to recover
breath, and renew her strain of benevolent
concern and welcome.

An' you'll kindly tak' things as they are,
sir, and excuse they're no' being just so nice as
they might have been. No' that ye need fear
could nor rheumatics  hoots, the young can
tak' could, an' the auld has rheumatics I but
nobody need be frighten for either at the Muir-land
Farm. The beds are aye aired. An'
though I'm alone the night, for we're changing'
or servant-lass, yet farthing's straight, ye see,"
throwing open the door of a good-sized sleeping-apartment,
which needed certainly no apology
either as regarded order or cleanliness. 

Evelyn, overjoyed, expressed his gratitude.

"The fire's the ae thing," replied the good

r'

woman, regretfully. * It'll tak' time to burn up
in sic a wind ; an' 'deed, I mistook its burning'
weel at a'. But we'll do or best; an' your
room will be darker by the time it's wanted :
an' here's Robin, sae I'll run."

Presently, however, she was at the door
again, laden with water, soap, and towels ; also
with further explanations. Had her daughter
been at home the guest would have been better
attended to.

The guest listened attentively.

'* Lizzie," continued the old woman, garrulously,
" has ta'en the road this afternoon, gain
after a lass, for we can ill get on wanting' ane ;
but she'll be back the morn."

The morn  that's tomorrow ? Was it not

she, then 1 " He paused ; suddenly he felt

a conviction that it could not have been she.
What if, after all, he were to be right in that
strange fancy which had seemed during the past
half-hour to be so utterly refuted that he had
quite lost sight of it ? But he would not seem
to pry ; so he waited for more, without finishing
what he had begun.

'ray, she'll be back the morn, gif nathan'
hinders her," continued Mrs Comline ; " and sae

we're just horses the night, the gudeman and

me, and Missy "

' Missy '? '' said Evelyn, absently.

'ray, Missy that brocht ye in  that fund ye
by the roadside. She's  she's just a bit stranger
young teddy that's stopping wi' us the noo 
stopping wi' my doctor. Lizzie is their governess
 governess to her wee sisters ; but I'm
leaving you wi' my havers  I'll run "

No, no ; pray don't. Hum  ah  what were
you saying ? "

"Oo, nathan', sir  nathan'. It's just my
tongue, that whiles runs wa' frae me. An' sae
if ye want nae mair, I'll leave ye. An' ye'll fin'
your ain way down ; an' we'll be blythe to see
you when ye're ready for your supper."

Too certain of his good-looks to disturb himself
materially about the cut of any apparel that
it might suit him for the nonce to don, Evelyn
speedily, and with fresh anticipatory sensations,
laid aside his own shooting-clothes, and put on
the Sunday suit of Mr Comline. Perhaps it
was as well, however, that the diminutive ,
from its position on the wall, did not
offer a reflection beneath the head and shoulders,
 since the sight of his handsome figure,

entirely disguised as it was by the loose and
shapeless garments, might have upset even his
equanimity.

But when a man has all his life long been
accustomed to looking well, he is not apt to be
troubled with misgivings. He need not be
vain  probably he is not vain ; while conscious
of superiority, he is almost indifferent to it ; it
is merely that he has never known any but a
good tailor, and that such ignorance is bliss
indeed.

Evelyn was an only child, whose father had
died while he was yet an infant, and whose
mother, a feeble-minded woman of fashion, had
done her best to pamper and ruin.

How he had escaped such a fate, no one knew.

The whole gauntlet of toadies, tutors, and
dependants he had run from his birth upwards,
and in spite of all, at twenty-one years of age
he stood forth to the world a fine, open-hearted,
good-humoured young gentleman, with the reputation
of never having been known to say
an ill - natured word, nor do an ungenerous
action.

In due time a commission in the Household
Brigade was procured for him, and he had held

VOL. I. c

this about eight years at the time our story
commences ;  hunting in winter, the London
season in spring and summer, sports and pastimes
of all sorts in the autumn, filling up his
years, and enabling him to pass them agreeably,
whether profitably or not, he did not inquire.

Nearly every August found him in Scotland,
either for the salmon-fishing or the grousing ;
but the particular year which brings him under
our notice, lost and helpless on the Galloway
coast, and afterwards succoured by a mysterious
princess in disguise  he is hoping all this time
that she may prove to be nothing less,  it was
neither the inducements of the moor nor the
loch which had called him northwards.

He was bound on another errand; and it was
so far important, that he had set about it at the
very beginning of his four months' leave, not
having considered what he should do with the
remainder of his time.

True, he loitered by the way like a schoolboy,
and he saw Carnochan House, which was his
ultimate destination, very much in the light of
the master's roof where he would be immediately
placed under supervision and restraint ;
but still he meant to get there some day.

Now and then, to be sure, he turned aside a
little bit. Gibson's place was here, and Fair-light's
place was there ; he knew people all up
and down the country, and how could he pass
them by ?

He had shot grouse in Yorkshire, hunted the
otter in Cumberland, swept the Tweed, and had
a cast over every river and stream that lay to
right or to left, ere he entered the Stewartry of
Kirkcudbright. Hang it all ! There was no
hurry. Singing and dancing as beseemed a
jolly young Guardsman whom everybody loved,
he was a welcome guest at every house he
entered : no woman found him remiss, no man
feared him as a rival.

They said he was not serious enough ; that he
had so many pleasures, he could not confine
himself to one ; and that consequently his love-making
suffered. It might have been that ; or
it might have been  shades of chivalry, shut
your ears !  that he found it too easy to conquer,
and needed all his armour to defend himself.
He did not wish to marry, and he had to take
care lest he was married without his will. It
was all very well for the others, but this favourite
of fortune was really at times hard put to it.

He was so engaging and so sprightly, so kindhearted
and pleasant and rich and respectable,
that he was a perfect Phoenix of a young
bachelor; and as to his not being serious, he
no more dared trust himself to be serious than
to drink hemlock : half an hour's seriousness
would have done for him for life. As to making
embroilments for the sake of gratifying his
own vanity at the expense of others, Evelyn
was the last man to have been guilty of such
behaviour. He had his good points.

Thus it came to pass that no man was more
popular, and that the only wonder was how he
ever reached Galloway at all. He was now, if
not absolutely within hail of Carnochan, in the
next county to it ; and finding himself so near
to his old friend Brewster, and never having
been at Castle Kenrick before  if he had, he
probably would not have been so ready to go
back again  he considered he could not well
pass by.

The same easy temper permitted him to be
perfectly quiescent, under the consciousness that
he would be missed and lamented over, on the
night in question, by the party assembled at the
Castle. He would not have given real honest pain

to a child, but he could inflict all the distress that
his absence was likely to occasion, without remorse
; and all the probability that he was the
subject of speculation and sighs among the
fashionable folks nine miles off, did not prevent
his stepping downstairs briskly and inquisitively
as soon as he had made his toilet in the
spare room at the Muirland Farm.

No alloy entered into the pleasure of the
moment when he lifted the latch and beheld
the quaint old parlour blazing with light, a
plentiful supper spread upon a snowy cloth on
the centre table, covered dishes nestling in each
corner of the huge fireplace, and his host and
hostess busily engaged with the kettle and the
teapot.

Savoury whiles which assailed his nostrils oncoming
forward, by no means detracted from
the charms of the scene in the opinion of a
hungry man.

One of the large roomy chairs had been drawn
up to the snuggest side of the table for him, and
as he took his seat and reclined at ease on the
faded chintz, resting his arms upon its high
cushioned sides, no lounge, sofa, nor settee had
ever seemed so luxurious.

He had enjoyed his repose for a few moments
only, when a door  one of several in different
parts of the room  opened somewhere behind
him, and the eyes of both the farmer and his
wife, who were also seated, being turned towards
the quarter whence the sounds proceeded, he
experienced a sensation which was altogether
novel to him.

His heart beat.

Perhaps it had never done so in his life
before.

CHAPTER III.

CROSS QUESTIONS AND CROOKED ANSWERS.

111 questions generate worse answers."  Pelham.

One tiling was certain, his curiosity had not
been unreservedly excited.

There was a suppressed stir of preparation, a
half rising up and sitting down again, a looking
at him, and then over his head, and then at
each other, which betokened that both the old
man and his wife were experiencing the feeling
that a critical moment had arrived.

Their innate good manners carried them
through it; but a certain nervous haste and
consciousness, an appearance of anxiety, almost
of deprecation, was visible : they were not at
their ease  homely and chatty, as they had been
before.

Come, Missy, here's your chair ready'' said

the farmer, rising, and holding his own back,
with an air that would have seemed more deferential
than was necessary towards so young an
inmate of his house, and his daughter's friend,
had the face and figure that now met Evelyn's
eye not borne out his former impression of his
guide,  "an' muckle obliged to you we are
for bringing us sic gude company on sic an ill
night. But, my young teddy "  with a kindly
pat on her shoulder as she passed  " it was nae
poor for the likes o' you to be sauntering about
the countryside. I was near about setting gaff
to speer after ye myself', when it set in sae
thick. Ye wad ha' been hame afore an ye
could, I'se warrant ; but we manna let ye gang
yer lane again to sic a distance, Lizzie or no
Lizzie. Hoots ! Lizzie can look after herself'
wi'oot fashion' her friends. She's no ane o' your
dainty gentry folk. But we're a' the same  a'
the same," he added, with an apologetic laugh
to the stranger. "No ane o' us. Captain" 
for Evelyn had now told his name and rank 
"no ane o' us, no even Missy here, but nun
mak' a fair idol o' that bit lassie o' ours. She's
wa' for the night, d'ye see  only for ae night,
mind  and here's this teddy friend o' hers nun

see her to the coach herself', and come a' the
way hame her lane. Na, na, Missy, that manna
be. A fair fright ye died us, faith the gudewife
and me, an* we nun see tilt another time that
ye're safe under bield again' e'en."

Evelyn had hastened to rise and look concerned
in the bustle which the new arrival had
created ; and he now, with the fluency of a man
of the world, expressed anew his sense of the
obligation under which he lay, and at the same
time observing, what had before escaped him,
the extreme youth as well as beauty of his
deliverer, he ventured to add his approval of
the prudent edict issued by his host.

All this was very well, but what did not so
entirely please the worthy farmer was the open
and undisguised admiration conveyed in the
look by which the words were accompanied.

There is no mistaking the ardour of manly
homage when it is given free scope and a clear
coast ; and with all respect for the goodwill of
his kind entertainers, it certainly did not enter
Evelyn's head to find in their presence any sort
of check.

He directed his attention, it is true, to all 
in so far as he could be permitted to do so without

interfering with their own notions of politeness
; but he threw into his manner a glow, a
warmth, an alacrity of motion, when the service
to be rendered was for his fair contemporary,
that could have no other interpretation than
that he was deeply impressed, and was at no
pains to conceal it.

All that was done or said failed, however, to
bring forth response.

Few words and no smiles could be drawn
from the severe young face opposite ; and so
rigidly were the eyes kept for other objects than
the guest, and so obstinately to all appearance
were the ears closed against his ingratiating
overtures, that he was piqued more than amused
by his want of success.

He began to find out, what hitherto he had
not had a chance of discovering, that he did
not like it. He was not used to deaf ears and
dumb eyes.

By Jove, though, they are eyes, when you
get a sight of them ! " said he to himself. " And
she has as prettily-shaped a little head and neck
as any I have seen this long while back. A dark-haired,
dark-browed belle,  the kind, of all
others, I admire. Who can she be ? And what

can she be doing here 1 I'll lay something there
is a mystery somewhere, and I am not meant
to find it out. She can't be mad : that sort of
thing isn't done now, and she would not be
allowed to go about by herself if she were.
She's somebody placed here for some purpose ;
and she has a curious, uncomfortable look, that
tells me she does not above half like the situation.
Now if she would only cheer up, and
make friends, why, I should find out all about
it in no time. Why won't she '? I have done
her no harm, though I did draw on my imagination
slightly when I was compelled to elicit her
pity for my misfortunes  they were bad enough,
I'm sure, to warrant any additions I liked to give
'em,  but she might forgive a poor half-drowned
waif for a little extra make-believe, if that's all.
I should be quite charming to her now, if she
would only show me grace ; but she looks so
deuced repellent, that, upon my word, I haven't
pluck for the attack."

Want of courage did not, however, prevent
his making another effort when, supper over,
the worthy dame bustled about, taking away
the dishes into the outer kitchen, where all the
scullery work and cookery were done ; and her

husband, no less eager to atone for and supplement
the absence of his daughter and maid,
seized brush and shovel, swept up the hearth,
and piled fresh wood on the fire.

Evelyn and the young lady were left, as it
were, in the lurch.

Let us set the chairs," said he, " since Mrs
Comline will not allow any one to help her with
her tray. I am a great hand at washing-up
dishes, if she would only believe it, but she
won't ; so I will lift the chairs, if you will tell
me where they ought each to go."

How it came to pass that after this he contrived
to settle the slender sphinx in a corner
whence she could not escape without derangiug
the whole circle, and then to draw his own armchair
to her side, was inexplicable. No directions
to that effect had been issued ; and, well
aware of the fact, it was with an inward chuckle
over the clever misapprehension which had
wrought so happy an arrangement, that he
began to better his acquaintance as speedily
as might be : but he had yet to learn what
stuff this softly-nurtured and well-favoured
young damsel was made of. She did not, it
is true, offer any resistance to his courtesies,

nor refuse to occupy the seat he chose for her, 
but he found that whether near or far, by her
side or with the supper-table between, it made
no difference in his obtaining any portion of her
favour.

On the whole, he was only half-displeased :
he was no longer tired and famishing ; the room
was warm and pleasant, the huge chairs yielded
a delicious sense of luxury, the storm roared
without, and the fire burned up brightly within,
he would not let himself be put out by the
frowns of an unkind maiden.

Evelyn had given his name, as we said, and
he had fancied for a few minutes afterwards
that an increase of cordiality  something which
was meant to mark still more emphatically than
before the sense his excellent hosts had of entertaining
an honoured guest  had followed its announcement.
The two had certainly looked at
each other, and had, at one and the same time,
ejaculated " Captain Evelyn I " as though the
words were familiar and surprising ; and from
both glance and accent he had expected an
immediate explanation.

No more, however, had been said ; and since
he was not so much as once asked where he

came from, or where he was bound for, he concluded
that his fancying recognition and astonishment
in their united tone was a mistake.

He wondered whether or no his credentials
had been presented to their silent charge '? She
gave no indications of their having been so ;
and they certainly were not disposed to favour
him with hers. He thought he would try what
he could do for himself.

Do you know this part of the country
well ? " he inquired, at the same time bending
forward to replace a burnt stick which was
tottering from its place.

In order to thrust it within the bars again, he
had to stretch across the chair to his right, and
as he did so he turned his eyes upwards. He
could not be mistaken this time. The face
which was thus at his mercy was suffused with
crimson ; and so obvious was it that he had put
a question more than ordinarily embarrassing,
that he was almost guilty of showing his consciousness
of having done so by some foolish
amendment on the observation, when he was
saved by the hasty interposition of Mr Comline,
who, having settled all to his satisfaction, had
sat down, with a sigh expressive of deep content,

in his own easy-chair on the other side of
the chimney-piece.

No' that weel, Captain Evelyn," he said ;
she kens it no' that weel for her to be trusted
her lane upon the road i' the gloaming' another
day ; an' no' that weel that we wad hae her foregather
wi' illa stranger she finds by the dyke-side.
Ha, ha, ha ! I coot ye played upon her
credulity, Captain  I coot ye did; an' right
glad I am ye did, tae," he added, fearful of hurting
the sensibility of his guest, *' faith glad and
proud. For a' that, though, ye manna think,

ye manna gang and tell her ladyship "

He stopped short, and stared over the top of
his spectacles. Mrs Comline was behind Evelyn :
was it possible that she had had anything to do
with that sudden halt ? Had she put on the
brake which had pulled up the gudeman so
smartly ?

Hey  hum  ha," continued he, after a
minute. " Hum,  ay ; that's to say  wife,
whaup's the mull 1 What was I saying' ? You
see. Captain Evelyn, when I'm a wee thing
slumbrous after the day's done, I get to '
at times  no kennin' just what I'm
saying', cinna ye see ? An' sae I beg your

pardon, sir, if Tm stupid-like; ye'll tak' nae
heed ; Tm no just responsible for a' that comes
frae me."

But if not responsible, it was odd that the
worthy speaker should have been so exceedingly
disconcerted. Such a sudden break-off in his
harangue, and such profuse explanations, could
only mean one thing  a blunder; and that a
blunder, a slip of some kind, had been made
and tried to be corrected, was patent to anybody.


Her ladyships'' said Evelyn to himself.
Soho ! "

He knew better than to press his advantage :
he fell back at once, and in the easiest manner
possible, upon his own interests ; and, after relating
with spirit divers adventures in which
he had lately been engaged, and giving some
account of the different proprietors, and their
reputation as landlords, who were now staying
at Castle Kenrick, greatly to the edification of
Mr Comline, who was inquisitive on this latter
point, he proceeded to inform them all of the
ultimate object of his journey into Galloway.

Suddenly he became aware that two large,
dark, penetrating eyes, in which he could almost

have sworn tears were shining, were fixed upon
him.

He had touched the right spring at last.

**Ah/' thought he, "that's it, is if? Not
happy at home "? Very good, my black domino :
since it pleases you to be interested in my conversation
at this point, and since you have not
cared two straws for anything I have said
hitherto, we'll have a little more of the same,
if you like."

But although he harped away valoi:'ously and
ingeniously, nothing further was seen of the wet
orbs. They were kept for the fire or the floor ;
and at the close of the evening, he could only
reflect that he had never before worked so hard
and achieved so little. The recollection gave
him a good hearty laugh at himself afterwards.

At the time, however, a few degrees of chagrin
just prevented his mental barometer from keeping
steady to the mark of fine weather, at which
it might otherwise have stood. He enjoyed his
evening, but he would have liked to have made
more of it. It was all so jolly, if she, this girl,
would have been jolly too. If she would have
taken up his friendly tone, and put in her word,
and laughed at his jests,  instead of sitting by

VOL. T. D

with a cold  no, it was hardly a cold face, buta
solemn, silent one. " Unapproachable, forbidding,"
were the epithets that he felt suited the
best ; and had it not been that the word sounded
harsh, as applied to one so young, he would
have added '' ill-natured' " It was certainly a
pity that people should be ill-natured," reflected
the young man, " more particularly when they
were the only people at hand." He had felt so
happy and comfortable, so pleasantly tired, and
so agreeably situated, that he had been stimulated
to do his very best ; and he could not but
feel it a little, a very little, mortifying that no
impression whatever had been made upon the
person for whose good opinion he was chiefly
solicitous.

Candles were lit, and he was shown to his
room without his even obtaining a *' good night,"
since, while assisting his hostess in performing
the first operation, he heard the mysterious door
at his back open and shut again ; and though he
looked round immediately, guessing what had
happened, he was too late.

What a peculiar door ? " he observed, going
up to it, as though to examine the workmanship.
"A fine solid piece of wood this,

farmer. Are there aDy more private staircases
to this room ? " glancing round, with a laugh.
"It is really * no canny as you say in Scotland,
when people glide in and out like apparitions."


Oo, there's nae apparition about it, Captain.
It's just a bit wing that was built on to
the loose to mak' it sizable i' my father's
time. He had the Muirland Farm afore me,
and, honest man, he had fourteen bairns 
mair than the baker's mizzen, yon. Sae there's
twa rooms up the stair, and twa below  they're
entered frae the outside, the others ; and Missy
and or doctor has the upper twa."

"Miss  ah  I don't know your visitor's
name ; but she must hear the wind a good deal
at that end of the house 1 " The pause following
his confession of ignorance, which he had
thought almost must produce an answer, was
unnoticed.

Maybe she does," said Mr Comline, drily ;
but she kens she's wi'in sower gude walls, and
the wind comes na near her pillow. The water
frae the waves, when the incoming tide is
Strong, whiles strikes on her window - panes,
though. Captain; and maybe ye'll hear it on



I ioDADV.

yer ain. An it disturbs your rest, yell ken
what it is ; but after a gude day up the glen,
it's no' like to do sae. It's no' that bad neither ;
it's just like a thud o' rain, or a handful' o'
peebles, or the like. We that's used to it thinks
nathan' o' it ; but I wad be loth it should keep
you frae your sleep."

No fears : but how do we not hear it in this
room ? "

No' hear it ! We might hae heard it a
while ago but for the clatter o' or ain tongues.
The tide's gain foot noo  it'll no' be in again 'ore
morning' ; but when we were at or supper it
was beaten' up  ay, ay, / heard it, but I ne'er
died it a thocht."

'don't you come with me, Mrs Comline ; goto
your other visitor." She was preparing to
lead the way to Evelyn's room.

*' Missy's nae visitor, Captain," rather shortly.

'' Well, but you are not to make a visitor of
me, either."

"No visitor," continued the young man to
himself; " then what the deuce is she ? Neither
fish, flesh, nor fowl, according to the old people.
She is not allowed so much as to put a bit of
wood on the fire, she is waited on as though

she were a duchess, and yet she is * no visitor ' !
I never was more puzzled  and small blame tome,
either. After three or four hours spent in
ceaseless endeavours, ones faculties become exhausted.
T don't remember that I ever bestirred
myself so much. I forgot, and remembered,
and was absent, and attentive, and everything
else that I could think of by turns,  and got
nothing for my pains ! Close, close as a nail,
these Scotch people. That one slip of the old
fellow's, that ' her ladyship,' was a piece of
luck, and the only one that I had. Well, now
to bed, and for sleeping the good round, or as
near it as is consistent with the ideas of my
primitive friends here. In the morning I shall
rise a giant refreshed, and renew the campaign."

Neither the pangs of curiosity, nor the howling
of the tempest, interfered to prevent the
fulfilment of the first of the above - named
anticipations.

The sun was indeed so high in the heavens
before Evelyn descended to the sitting-room
next day, that, although he would probably
have been reckoned an early riser among the gay
people at Castle Kenrick, he found himself on
the present occasion obliged to breakfast alone.

In the greeting which awaited him, and the
earnest inquiries after the comfort of his room,
the quality of his sleep, and the number of his
blankets, nothing but hearty approbation, however,
was manifested at his having done to all
such ample justice.

Everything that he could desire was spread
before him ; not kept hot  abomination of
abominations  but fresh, steaming, appetising.

That he had not been expected to join the
earlier repast was evident, and he thought he
could perceive that his not having done so had*
even his hostess satisfaction. She alone received
him. The farmer had gone out, leaving
suitable excuses. He had been obliged to betake
himself to the nearest village in all haste
to find a man who could repair a shepherd's
'bught,'' which had been blown down in the
night, of which disaster tidings had been brought
in some hours before.

The young lady was also invisible ; but of
her nothing was said.

(" What a fool I have been to lose this chance!"
reflected the laggard, who, like most other
people, marvelled, when once wide-awake, what
inducement he could have had to sleep so long.

*' I ought to have been down," thought he,
"two hours ago. They have boxed her up safe
and sound again ; but since ' catch me if you
can  is a game that two can play at, I must
show my agility, now that I have entered the
lists') Aloud  "Thank you, Mrs Comline.
Yes, I think I must surely have got everything.
I shall certainly know where to look for a true
specimen of a Scotch breakfast another time.
Oh, more scones ! I thought I had finished,
but you tempt me till I declare I can't resist.
Are you making these yourself, may I ask, or is
ah  any one giving you assistance in the
next room '? ''

I need nae assistance, sir," somewhat drily.

But your daughter was to return to-day.
Is she not come yet \ "

No' 'fore night, Captain. Lizzie has twenty
miles to travel, and shell no' start early neither.
Na, na, ye manna expect to see her the day ;
but nae coot another time we'll be fain and
hearty to see you ; and should it be your pleasure

to bide a day or twa, or mair but what

am I saying' ? It's no' likely, when Castle Kenrick
is over by, that ye wad care to stop at the
Muirland Farm ! " with a lauefh at her own

simplicity. '' Weel, sir, an ye be for the hills
again, ye'll hae something' wi' you : Til run fora
bit paper "

She was off, leaving in her haste the door
slightly ajar ; and whilst Evelyn was ruminating
with some ruefulness on the ease with which
his neatest and most diplomatic sallies were set
aside, and was inwardly mooting the point as
to whether he should not now give up the Contest,
and take himself off handsomely, or whether
he should, at the last moment, formally request
to take farewell of, and express his gratitude to,
his earliest acquaintance, he was startled by
hearing, just outside the door, the unmistakable
imperative whisper of a person who is only too
resolute not to be overheard.

"Miss Kate, Miss Kate, ye nun gang ben,
an it be but for a ' Hoo are ye ? ' and wa. It's
no' mannerly, my dear, to gie him nae word at
martin', you that brocht him in yersel'. Diana
bide in the room, an ye liken, but just gang in
till him wi' your hat and coat on  as ye are 
and say your say, and hae it over. Hoot, fye !
He kens nae thine''

Evelyn heard, confounded.

The instinct of a gentleman prompted him

to rise and shut the door ; and, in spite of his
desire to hear more, he had akeady got off his
chair to do so, when the nearness of the voice
outside made him fear to be caught, however
innocently, in the position of an eavesdropper.

Hastily resuming his seat, therefore, he buried
his face in his empty teacup.

No one appeared after all ; and the clattering
of pans and pails in the entry, together with
the rustling of paper, which had also preceded
the above, recommenced with renewed energy.
A pause succeeded next, and subsequently the
shutting of a door  probably that of the closet
in which his hostess had been rummaging  and
he now concluded that she was about to return
and provide for his future necessities ; but whether
alone or not, he could not determine, since
he had caught no answer to the energetic admonition
above recorded.

He looked at the door eagerly.

It still stood open, very slightly open  so
slightly that the narrow chink might pass unobserved,
and evidently had so far done so ;
but though he could hear that some one was
moving about on the outside, he was left to
himself for full three minutes longer.

A happy thought. Else, and go boldly out.
Catch this Miss Kate, if she be still there; if
not, no harm done. He jumped to his feet, and
sat down again.

The whispering had recommenced.

CHAPTER IV.

A TELL-TALE HANDKERCHIEF.

Let me but bind this handkerchief about it hard.

othello.

So close was it now to the door that, were he to
show himself to the unlucky women without
having had to lift the latch, they must be informed
by his doing so that he had overheard,
if not all their conversation, at least as much of
it as made him sensible of the propriety of hearing
no more.

With the most honourable intentions, he was
in consequence at a stand-still.

Either to go out, or to remain where he was,
was to annoy somebody : and at length, in desperation,
he upset a cup and saucer; and having,
he thus hoped, made noise enough to signal his
propinquity to those outside, he seized the bread-knife,
and held it aloft over what Mrs Comline

called the " loaf - bread''  she always added
afterwards, in recording the tale, that the baker
had called the day before, and had left some
excellent loaf-bread : there he stood, prepared
to be caught, and to remind his hostess that she
had bidden him supply his luncheon from her
well-filled board.

In this attitude, and with a countenance
made up to abstraction from all concerns but
his own, he was obliged again to pause  for
apparently the stratagem had enlightened no
one ; and the following fell distinctly on his
ear, 

Weel, my dear, ye nun gang your ain gait ;
but that's no' saying' it's a gude gait, mind you.
He thinks it's me and the gudeman that's keeping'
him frae ye,  ay, ye should hae heard him last
night, he was that vexed at us ! And what for
should we keep ye, I wad ken ? Keep ye frae
yer ain "

- Sh sh sh ! "

'' Ye'll no' be guided, then ? " in a subdued
tone.

''I can't''

'' Can't ? But that's fair nonsense, an' begin'
your pardon, Missy. Folks can aye do

T>

what they sold do ; and that's a lesson ye hae
yet to learn, my dear. Noo," coaxingly, "just
gang in wi' me "

'' No, no ; " and more followed, too low for
the words to be audible. From the tone, however,
Evelyn divined what must be their tendency
; and he would have smiled to himself
at the extraordinary timidity which prevented a
girl of sixteen or seventeen from interchanging
the commonest civilities with one of the other
sex, had it not been for the old woman's " He
kens naethin'," which seemed to indicate that
it was not mere girlish bashfulness alone which
had to be overcome.

He could, however, permit himself to hear no
more ; and since the cup and saucer were not
sufficiently powerful agents in the cause, neither
having been broken, he essayed to kick down
a chair with his foot, while at the same time
cutting lustily at the loaf. The gymnastic
experiment succeeded so far as to produce a
'' Holloa ! " so natural, that Mrs Comline appeared
at once, although the chair retained its
position.

The exclamation had been sufficient.

It had been caused by an accident which is

not infrequent in houses where the cutlery is
old and worn. The back of the knife which
Evelyn held suspended was, from long usage, as
thin and sharp as the other edge ; and endeavouring
as he did to execute two manoeuvres atone
and the same time, he brought it into sharp
collision with his left hand, the consequence
being an exceedingly awkward slit on the fleshy
part of the thumb.

Mrs Comline uttered a cry, Evelyn endeavoured
to laugh, and the commotion brought
into the room, as nothing else would have done,
the person upon whom neither the wishes of
the one, nor the representations of the other,
had wrought any effect.

Without a word she seized the bleeding hand,
and disregarding the matron's entreaties and
the young man s protestations, marched him off
then and there into the back-kitchen. Here
was a tap of cold water, and under it the
wounded member was held relentlessly, to the
infinite diversion of Evelyn, who, while continuing
to expostulate, was secretly overjoyed at
the turn affairs had taken. He was now alone
once more with the mysterious fair,  Mrs Com-line
having disappeared in search of that homeliest

of remedies, a cobweb,  and it would go
hard with him but he would make some use of
his opportunity. Her intent expression over
the task, and her absorption in it, moreover,
could not but be gratifying ; he submitted with
more than patience to her orders, called the cut
a trifle, but poured forth thanks and praises in
the same breath. Presently, when it became evident
that the first profuse stream was checked,
he was directed to press the sides of the cut
together, and to wait while his surgical attendant
ran to her room for a bandage.

'' The handkerchief in your pocket," suggested
Evelyn, looking towards a piece of delicate
cambric which protruded from the breast-pocket
of the rough outer jacket she wore ; "my
own I can't offer. But if you will kindly ''

She drew it out.

A small piece of pink embroidery in the
corner caught his eye.

Now all good stars look down ! " implored
the artful miscreant, inwardly ; " if she thinks
of that, my last device has failed. But no, she
doesn't."  (Aloud.) "A little more this way,
please; and pass it behind the thumb." (confound
the provoking thing, it's staring her full

in the face ! ") " Pray don't move this end, if you
can help doing so ; it's right over the place, and
holds it together capitally." (''Aha! it's too
late now, my fair blunderer ; so you see what
you have done at last, do you ? ") '' A knot,
please. There ; that's comfortable." (" And
you may whistle for your handkerchief till
I have inspected those pink letters in the
corner") " Thank you so very much."

"Here's the cobweb," cried Mrs Comline,
running in, out of breath, with the unsavoury
morsel in her hand. " To think that I wad bea'
this while, and could get a cobweb nae
gait. But I kenned ye had the could water,
for I heard the tap, and there's nathan' like
could water ; but preserve us a', Miss Kate, ye
hanna bunged up the place wi'oot a cobweb, nor
nathan' ? What's to ken when it might tak' it
in its heed to break foot again, and no' be sae
easy stopped '? I hare been foot to the byre
myself', Captain, for this bonnie cobweb."

It was a pity you were not here sooner,"
said Evelyn, maliciously ; " but the operation
was well and skilfully performed, I can assure
you. The wound will certainly heal of itself,
provided it is not again disturbed."

*' Wad I no' tie it up for ye, sir 1 it wad tak'
nae harm."

"By no means," drawing back decidedly.
"I could not think of having all this young
lady's work undone. Her bandage was the
exact thing required, and she has put it on as
cleverly as though she had been a professor of
surgery. The worst of it is, I shall not be able
to hold a rod to-day."

*' Na, that ye'll no' ; ye nun put up wi' that
inconvenience. Captain, an' be thankful' its nae
war. Ye nun find other ploys at Castle Kenrick
; and Missy will reel up the fishing-line maybe
? " turning to her interrogatively.

Oh yes."

'ran' that's a' ye hae to do, I think 1 " continued
the gudewife.

"Except to bid you 'good-bye,' and that I
have still a hand for. I don't know how to
thank you enough, Mrs Comline, but I can only
say I never met with greater kindness, nor
spent a pleasant evening. You must tell your
husband that I hope he will allow me to say so to
himself some day, and the next time I am in the

neighbourhood I  I " he was at a momentary

loss,  '' I hope I may be allowed to come over."

VOL. L E

The lameness of the conclusion was certainly
due to the sound of his line being wound up
in the outer hall ; but whether anxiety lest the
operation should not be properly performed, or
whether desire to superintend it himself for any
other reason, made him hasten his speech to a
close, remains unknown.

He certainly deserved credit for his perseverance.


Here was a pretty creature, not yet out of her
teens, to whom he had endeavoured to make
himself agreeable, and who might have thought
it only her place to have been pleased and responsive,
 to have been in waiting to give him
his tea in the morning, and ready to conduct
him part of his way afterwards. They could
then have parted on the best of terms, and have
forgotten each other pleasantly.

But this frowning black-eyed Kate had positively
declined her part  had neither answered
to his glances, nor vouchsafed more than monosyllables
to his most direct questions. Such
grossierete was perfectly idiotic  or would have
been, had its perpetrator not had a cheek like a
damask rose.

As it was Hum ! As it was, in spite of

her inhumanity, and her too evident desire to
strip off the bandage, and keep him from his
hard-earned knowledge even at the last, he resolved
to have one more interview  whether long
or short, to be determined by circumstances.

He found her reeling-in carefully ; and having
despatched, or at least permitted, Mrs Comline
to hunt about in search of an imaginary pair of
gloves, which, it is to be presumed, she thought
it only natural that a gentleman of Evelyn's
standing should have about him when out trout-fishing,
he accosted her youthful charge with,
This is the third service you have rendered
me within a few hours. I hope I am not expected
to take myself off without tendering in
return either money or thanks ? "

Money ! " exclaimed the girl, flushing to her
brow''

So much for jocularity'' muttered Evelyn,
aside. '* A wrong cast altogether") "You don't
like to be jested with, I perceive ? " he said
aloud.

I don't  understand it."

' Nor like it 1"

"No."

After a moment's pause, she added slowly 

"The most cruel words I have ever heard
spoken were said in jest."

"That," replied Evelyn, much touched, "is
enough. No one can help disliking what has
been to them a channel for pain ; you will surely,
however, pardon one who had no unkind intentions,
and whose last wish it would be to awaken
any recollections that could distress ? " and he
held out his hunt.

Rather to his surprise he found it laid hold
of and retained. " Forgive me," said his companion,
with an earnestness in her tone, and a
fervour in her eye, that were as disproportionate
to the scene as had been her former exaggeration
of reserve,  " forgive me. I am sorry I spoke
to you like that : you did nothing to deserve it ;
you  you would not do an unkindness to any
human being, I do believe."

Would not hurt a fly,  let alone the spider
which that wicked woman must have destroyed
when she brought down so ruthlessly its little
web. Do you think it possible the animal survived
the shock ? "

He was answered by the sweetest, merriest,
most musical laugh in the world.

All the same, this cut is rather a bore' said
Evelyn to himself, when at length he set off on
his solitary walk  he having hitherto regarded
the trifle in the light of an unmitigated piece
of good fortune, especially since he had felt it
necessary, after his last experience, to offer sundry
assurances that he should in person return
the handkerchief. "It is really rather a bore,"
he now reflected. " Stupid place Castle Kenrick
when you can't do things, and to-day I could
hold neither a rod, a gun, nor a cue. Perhaps I
may as well go on to Carnochan this evening.
They are expecting me ; so, though I had not
meant to go, all things considered, I may as well
not disappoint 'em."

To the Castle he must, however, adjourn first,
to pack up and make his adieux ; and the day
proving bright and exhilarating, the distance,
which on the previous evening had been a bugbear
to the imagination, was now precisely the
right length for a pleasant morning's stroll.

As he walked along he could perceive that the
damage done by the gale was slight as compared
to what it must have been had the country been
more cultivated : everything capable of sustaining
injury had indeed been blown away long

before ; and only here and there clusters of
stones had been knocked down from exposed
portions of walls, and small bushes had been
bowled over, and lay on their sides, with their
roots stripped clean of mould and fibre.

The boom of the waves, which now came sullenly
and continuously from beneath, proclaimed
that they had sunk to a tithe of their former
size, and that without any visible results.
Pieces of sea-weed strewed the fields ; but even
where these last came down to the shore, and
had been entirely at the mercy of the water,
they had not apparently suffered.

As soon as our pedestrian was hidden from
the view of any one who might be following him
with her eyes  he wondered much if she would,
he drew out the end of the traitor handkerchief,
which he had carefully tucked into the
hollow of his palm ; he did not even require to
untie the knot to satisfy his curiosity.

The pink letters were there  a great deal of
pink, it appeared  but, exasperating disappointment
! nearly the whole was a floral flourish,
with two simple letters in the centre.

He had expected a name, perhaps a coronet, 
something, at any rate, by which he could trace

the owner ; but behold, a plain C. N. in satin-stitch
embroidery, very neatly and prettily
worked, was his sole reward.

It was better than nothing, and that was all
that could be said of it.

C. N," he muttered aloud" C. N. What
a fuss to make over only a C. N. ! I had hoped
for a great deal more. Those twirls and flourishes
are ridiculously, superfluously nonsensical :
all that is needed is the name of the person to
whom the article belongs, and it should be therein
full. Pah ! I made sure it was ; I saw a
perfect mass of pink, and acted accordingly.
C. N. was hardly worth the troubles'

By-and-by it was. " So they would not let
me send it by post 1 Very good, my fair C. N.
You shall receive it otherwise, in that case. I
do not leave it at Castle Kenrick to be fetched
by the farmer when he is over there next, I
promise you. Nor do I say a word about you
to anybody there. Why, you foolish girl, this
handkerchief alone would set people talking ;
farmers' daughters don't have cambric like gossamer.
After all, I believe I really must try to
keep up the mystery a little longer, for my own
sake : I have not had such a piece of good-luck

for many a day. Being picked up by the wayside
by a mysterious beauty, and brought into
a nest of comforts that it makes one long to be
tired and hungry again to think of. How nice
it was ! How the storm roared outside ! I
should have been drenched through, besides
being nearly done up, if I had had to trudge all
these nine miles back after the mistake was
cleared up ; and into the bargain, I should not
have had half so pleasant an evening. Everything
was so uncommonly snug, and comfortable,

and cheery ; but it was ' C. N.' who no  was

it, though '? " . . .

Great was the jubilation over the defaulter
when at length he was descried approaching the
Castle. He was a poor dear man, a stupid tiresome
man, an unfeeling cruel wretch, a barbarian,
and a monster, all at once.

What did he mean by such conduct ? Where
had he been ? What had he to say for himself ?
How had they all been experiencing on his behalf
such hours of misery as had left them no
spirits, no inclination for anything ; and here
was he who had been the centre of their solicitude,
the object of their anxiety, the topic of
their tenderest conjectures and surmises, walking

in as coolly as though nothing had happened
!

Pray, what had happened ? Had he lain ina
ditch all night? Had he fallen over the
dreadful rocks, and waited for daylight to pickup
the pieces and put himself together again ?
Had he sheltered among the ruins of the old
Abbey, and fed and warmed himself with the
recollection of the midnight orgies that had in
olden times been celebrated there ?

It was a shabby trick to play upon his
friends. How were they to know he was well
off, and enjoying himself? Lady Airdrie had
thought about hysterics several times, and
Netta had declared that, though she did not
mind going to the piano, they really must excuse
her playing waltzes.

Besides which, there had been no fish for
dinner. The cook had made so sure of Captain
Evelyn's trout, that she had neglected to provide
in case of deficiency ; and fancy Mrs
Brewster's feelings when there was no fish for
dinner !

On her the blow must certainly have fallen
hardest of all, since her son, who had been
Evelyn's friend through thick and thin, would

not allow any one to abuse him behind his
back, and had maintained that the trout would
be in time up to the very last moment.

Mrs Brewster, a mild old lady who had no
idea what they were talking about, assented to
all that was said. She was sure she was very
glad to see Captain Evelyn back, and very sorry
to hear they were to lose him again that day.

So, it soon appeared, were all.

The ladies were bereft, at the time he returned,
of everything in the shape of a male
being, and it followed that the appearance at
mid-day of a man of any sort was hailed as a
perfect windfall.

And a man like Evelyn !

They could not make enough of him.

Castle Kenrick was a sporting-house, and that
alone. From eleven to six no masculine voice
nor tread was ever heard within the precincts
of the Castle ; all those weary hours the poor
women were left to their own resources  it being,
perchance rashly, presumed that they possessed
such ; but what they did with themselves
remained unknown, and it was a secret which
it certainly never entered the heads of fathers,
husbands, or brothers to inquire into. They

came in fresh and gently fatigued, after their
exhilarating days on the hill and the river, and
found awaiting their return bright faces, pretty
dresses, and rekindled animation ; but the experience
of Evelyn, after passing two hours
and a half with a bevy of the fair at his heels
wherever he went, was such that he could never
think of their fate again without pity.

He was impatient to be off.

All the petting, questioning, and upbraiding
were distasteful at the moment ; and he almost
wished that he had not done so well for himself
and his reputation, when it went the round
that he had been found half dead on the moor,
and had been forced to spend the night at a
lonely, miserable, storm-beaten farmhouse, out
of reach of the barest necessities of life.

Perhaps it was as well that his friend Brewster
was not at home to dispel the illusion.

Brewster's mother was old and frail, and
seldom went far from her own doors. She
knew the farm, and could vouch for its being
a long way off, and for their tenants, the farmer
and his wife, being respectable people, but she
knew no more ; and Evelyn heard her avow her
ignorance with a feeling of relief. When she

first opened her lips, he found himself listening
with some anxiety. He did not wish to hear
then and there who " C. N." was.

His bound-up hand next came under observation.


Was it a fall, or a cut, or a sprain 1

What had he done for it ? What would he
allow to be done for it now ?

'* Do let me have a peep ? '' implored the
Netta who had drawn the line at waltzes. '' Oh
dear ! it must be terribly painful by the way
you shrink back. If you would only allow me
to untie your handkerchief  did you bind it
up yourself ?  oh, the farmer's wife did, I
suppose ; but I could do it quite as neatly,
and "

And some friar's balsam," suggested Netta's
mamma. '* But if I were Captain Evelyn I
should not trust myself to any such raw practitioner.
There is a small case of medicines in

my room

He had to beg off resolutely.

*well, I must say," put in another lady,
who quite approved of the refusal, "men do
manage wonderfully when they are left to
themselves ; they are so neat-fingered."

The man in question acknowledged the
compliment, but at the moment a vision of
other neat fingers than his own rose before
his eye.

He was getting very sick of it all, saying to
himself that some people never know when to
hold their tongues, never can let a subject drop.
After it was found that he could not use a
knife and fork, he heard nothing for the next
half-hour but references to " your poor hand."

There was nothing to change his mind, nor
make him delay his departure, and the dogcart
was at the door by two o'clock. In another
few minutes he should be rid of them all ; and
he was gaily taking leave at the door, when his
eye suddenly fell on a form more interesting,
and at the same time more dangerous, than any
by which he was surrounded. Honest Comline
himself, walking round from the back entrance
with a pocket-book in his hand, came up full of
self - granulation on being just in time. The
pocket - book, which was full of letters and
papers, had been left on Evelyn's dressing-table,
no, it was under his pillow, and it head thus
escaped detection until the bed had been made.
He being from home, and no messenger handy.

they had not been able to send over before.
"But an the wife had kenned," quoth the
goodman, " it was sic a close shave as this, she
wad hae sand a way, see an she would !
Were ye no' coming for it course, Captain ? "
*' To tell you the truth,  Fm ashamed to confess
it,  but I had never discovered my loss."

Amazement exhausted, the farmer bethought
him of his next commission.

An it wad do your han' nae harm," he said,
it wad maybe save ye trouble, sir, to gie me
hame the napkin. No' to hurt ye, mind  no' to

hurt ye "

'soh, I could not think of it, Mr Comline.
The bandage must not be removed at any price.
It's no trouble in the world to bring it back,
and your good wife has promised to make me
welcome when I next appear. I certainly hope
to pay my respects to you both again before
long," taking care not to be overheard. " I am
afraid now, as I am just starting, I must not

stop to bring you inside, but "

Hoot wa, sir ! I'm nae stranger here,"
replied the old man, with a mixture of dignity
and rebuke. " I ken my way to Mr Purvis's
room wi'oot fashion' anybody. Good day to ye,

Captain, and a fair journey and a bonnie welcome.
Ye hae a lang and weary ride afore ye,
and I coot it will be pit-mirk afore ye reach
Carnochan. And that's a pity, for it's a bonnie
place,  a bonnie place ; see it in the sunlight,
and "

You know it ? " said Evelyn, surprised.
You did not tell me that before ? "

*' Oo ay, I hae been there," replied the farmer,
drily. " I hae been there, as weel as at
other places. Kirkcudbright is on the road to a
wheen tristes, and Carnochan is nae distance
frae Kirkcudbright, though it's afF the coast.
I was there  ahem  nae lang syne."

How long will it take me to drive from
here 1 "

It's thirty miles ; ye can tell yersel' hoo
lang that will tak. Captain ? "

"Oh, I shall do it easily in three hours and
a half."

Wi' three gude beasts  no' unless. It took
me five, sax hours  ay, and mair  when I cam
frae Carnochan yon time. Cade day  sir, gude
day,  I'm keeping' you ; " and he was off before
more could be said.

Curious," said Evelyn to himself, " that he

should never have said a word as if he knew
the place when I was talking so freely about it
before."

It was dark, as the farmer had prognosticated,
ere he reached his journey's end. The little
railway which now runs along the Wigtown and
Galloway coast was not in existence at the time
we write of; and although fresh horses were to
be had at different places by the way, and he
had an excellent coaching-road to traverse, either
the distance was longer than reckoned, or he
was delayed at the stages more than had been
counted upon.

The whole aspect of the country altered as he
proceeded eastward. It was cultivated and verdant.
Fields of grain were either ripe for the
sickle or were being already stacked, broad
rivers watered fertile meadows, and trees resumed
a more natural shape and exhibited a
greater variety.

It was all pretty and pastoral, but somehow
at the moment our traveller did not like it so
well as the dreary wastes he had left behind.

They suited his mood.

Fair and undulating valleys were very well
in their way, but he saw them in abundance

round the woody heights of Evelyn Towers, and
he fancied that he was tired of smooth, sleepy
scenes.

He smiled to himself as he still caught at
intervals the sound of the breakers below the
rocky bank  they seemed like the voices of a
pleasant memory ; and on turning inland he was
ready to exclaim almost pettishly on the folly of
people building their houses away from the sea.

By-and-by, however, he could laugh at himself
with returning recollection.

What a simpleton I am ! Imagine Lady
Olivia stuck down among those wilds ! As it
is, she looks upon herself as more than half
buried alive, I suspect, though she would not
own as much for the world. My poor mother !
How hard she fights to say the right thing at
all times ! I hope and trust her  dear delightful
Carnochan ' is not a delusion from bemnnino to
end. Ha ! Is this the place ? " responding to
a guttural intimation of his driver.

'' It is ? Oh, I am glad of it ! " continued
Evelyn, inwardly summing up. " Deer park,
avenue, good lodges, well-kept grounds ;  hum,
all very well, so far. Ton my word, she has
not done amiss for herself. I am glad I came,

VOL. I. F

and I can run over from here very easily."
(Whither he was to run, the reader will guess.)
'' I need have no bother. Drive myself half the
way, and change. Castle Kenrick can serve as
an excuse. Oho ! Another lodge, and some
very good trees. I like the place. And there's
the house. Good house  but not up to the
premises. Looks rather old and musty. Scotch
houses generally are musty. Well, I shall come
upon 'em without their knowing it, and so escape
a fuss."

This, however, was not to be.

He had been detected from a window ; and
though Lady Olivia could not possibly upset
her work-table, smash her teacup, and clasp her
bracelet in time to get to the end of the room
before he was entering the doorway, she was
ready to meet him there with the tenderest expressions
of joy and astonishment, and taking
his hand in hers, present her son to her husband.

EVIL FOREBODINGS AT CARNOCHAN,

Suspicions that the mind of itself gathers, are hut buzzes ; hut suspicions
that are artificially nourished, and put into men's heads by the
tales and whisperings of others, have stings."  Bacon.

A BRIDE of twenty may or may not engross the
attention of her friends to the full extent of her
belief, but it rarely happens that the nuptials of
a widow more than double that age excite even
the typical nine days' wonder.

Lady Olivia Evelyn, handsome, charming, and
gay, was nevertheless beyond her prime even asa
fine woman, and the event which united her
to the second man of her choice, though duly
heralded, chronicled, and congratulated upon,
did not perhaps create the full measure of sensation
she had anticipated.

In relinquishing the world  according to her
idea of such a renunciation  she fondly believed

.m.

that the loss was not entirely on one side ; in
resigning her post as leader of the toby she was
unaware that only in her own eyes had she ever
held it ; and in mourning over the void which
the cessation of her assemblies must have caused,
she forgot to remember how scantily they had
been attended.

It suited her invariably to put the best face
on everything connected with herself.

But the plain truth was, that even in her best
days Lady Olivia had never shone forth in her
sphere with any prominence, and that such consideration
as was shown her, was due to her birth
and position rather than to any qualities of the
heart or head which could command respect.

As long as she could give parties in Hill
Street, and invite guests to Evelyn Towers, she
could not be without acquaintance ; but when
the majority of her only son altered her position
with regard to these and other matters, and it
was seen that the two were not inseparable 
indeed they were seldom together  her status
in society suffered.

Of this Evelyn was probably unaware  indeed
it is certain that he was so, since otherwise
his good - nature would indubitably have led

him, even at some sacrifice to himself, to give
countenance to his parent. In every respect he
was, it is true, cast in another mould ; they had
no single point in common either as regarded
disposition or tastes, and he could not conceal
from himself that she possessed but a slight
hold on his affections ; but had it once occurred
to him that by remaining at the Towers whilst
she was there, or residing under the same roof
when they were in London at the same time, he
could have done more than merely afford her
pleasure, he would not have refused to give up
his own will. In this instance, as in many
others. Lady Olivia's own peculiar faculty for
being cheerful at the expense of truth, militated
against herself.

She would neither hear nor suggest a word
to the effect that anything and everything connected
with her lot was not flawless. So long
as she could laud her darling boy behind his
back, she consented to see his face but seldom ;
and would he but permit her the exultation
of announcing that she had a letter from him
in her pocket, she cared not that the writing
barely covered a single page.

Thus it came to pass that a perfectly good

understanding was established between the two,
and that although it was patent to the world
that Lady Olivia was a mother only in name,
and that Evelyn interested himself but slightly
in her concerns, and shunned her society, both
would with equal readiness have repudiated the
idea that they were not on the best of terms ;
and when, with joyful haste, she despatched to
him the tidings of her being about to contract
another alliance, she was not mistaken in reckoning
on one at least who would read the intelligence
with gratification.

He might not put faith in her raptures, nor
credit above the half of her statements, but
enough remained to interest and to excite his
approval.

He was as well pleased as ever he had been in
his life,  or so, at least, he told himself, oblivious
of the fact that the same phrase had risen to
his lips when the puppies of his favourite pointer
Jemima proved to be of the right sort, when his
old chum Harry Burly was chosen stroke of the
Trinity boat, and when repeated efforts enabled
him to hit the trick of balancing a fork on the
back of his hand, throwing an orange into the
air and catching it on the spike.

He might not exert himself vehemently to
seek his future stepfather's acquaintance, nor
was he to be depended upon for being present
at the wedding, but he certainly intended to be
civil all round, and was  repeatedly  " as well
pleased as ever he had been in his life."

This, however, was enough.

His mother felt that she had done the right
thing, that her judgment had been manifested,
her charms vindicated. It seemed so easy
now,  so easy and simple a matter this bringing
of suitors to her feet, after things had
been settled between her and Mr Newcastle,
that she in secret wondered at herself for not
having done something in that way before.
What had hindered her ?

What but her orphan boy. For dear Eupert's
sake alone, it must have been, that she had
resisted importunity hitherto ; and nothing was
plainer than that, now when he no longer needed
her protecting care, she was free to think for
herself. That he had not needed the care for
the last seven years, and that he had never had
it during the twenty-one previous ones, was
immaterial,  nobody could be more charmingly
blind than Lady Olivia when necessary,  and

her orphan son  in consideration of his six feet
one inch, and his moustache, he was permitted
to be 'son" instead of "boy"  figured
prominently in her announcements of her second
marriage.

Nothing could be more radiant than was the
widow's description of her prospects.

As a matter of fact, she was sincerely pleased:
she would have once more a house and establishment
of her own ; she would regain all her
former consideration in the eyes of the world ;
and she would be relieved from the haunting
apprehension that any day might see her transformed
into a dowager. Added to this, her
future husband was undoubtedly an agreeable
peaceable gentleman, with whom it would be
easy to live. He was himself a widower,
elderly and somewhat old-fashioned ; it was
not unflattering that he seemed already half
terrified at his audacity in contemplating a
union with so august a lady, and altogether
amazed at his success. He was certain to be
manageable.

Since he had a family, it was a great point
that it consisted entirely of daughters. No
daughters could make themselves as disagreeable

'as could sons. They would probably be
pretty and amiable, and she would have the
satisfaction of marrying them off soon. Or, if
not, girls were always useful in a house : how
often had she wished for some herself, when
there were things to be done, notes to be
written, and guests to be attended to. One
poor head and pair of hands could not accomplish
everything ; and a sweet, pretty daughter,
especially now that she saw so little of her

son but here she would pull up short, even

when speaking to herself.

To other auditors it naturally followed that
such honest self-congratulation took the form
of inflated panegyric upon every person and
circumstance connected with her new alliance.

I am indeed only too fortunate, my kind
Lady Julia ; I have nothing, nothing in the
world to wish for. As for the children, whom
some  including dear, prudent Lady Anne 
imagined I might fancy a drawback, why, I
expect to find in them my greatest treasures !
To their companionship and society, I can assure
you both, I am looking forward as much as to
anything else in the bright prospect now openings
before me."

The ladies to whom so much was confided
listened discreetly. If they glanced at each
other now and then, if there followed an expressive
silence after the eloquent peroration,
it is possible each knew what the other was
thinking of, and that they were reflecting inwardly
that, however bright might be the
prospect before their old friend, the other side
of the picture  namely, that turned towards
the family of her bridegroom  was more shady.

That Lady Olivia should behold no dark
spots on her side, by having recourse to the
simple expedient of daubing the blemishes
over, was all very well, but they '' humbled "
to themselves as they thought of the poor
girls. Yes  undoubtedly they were, or would
be soon, "poor girls."

The two finely-mannered aristocrats who sat
up and gave ear, were, you see, up to all the
tricks and turns of their ancient ally ; they
knew that so long as neither forbearance, nor
generosity, nor sweetness of temper was needed,
and so long as a flow of words and a certain
indolent hilarity met every exigency of the case,
she might pass muster excellently well; but
they also knew that directly the smooth current

of her days was interrupted by any obstruction,
that were she to be called upon to give up a
pleasure, or exert herself to perform a duty, her
amiability was no more to be depended upon
than that of any other uniformly selfish person.

Her code was a short one.

What was considered proper in the circle in
which she had been brought up, what was done
by them, and said by them, was all she wished
to know. Their opinions alone were founded
in truth, reason, and justice  or if not, in the
fashionable substitutes for such, that did as
well, or better. So far as her experience went 
and on this experience she prided herself  wellborn
and well-bred people were of one stamp
all the world over ; and the idea of making
allowance for peculiarities indigenous to different
soils, would have seemed preposterous in
her eyes.

Nobody could open her eyes better than Lady
Olivia when surprise was to be exhibited ; it
was her sole argument ; she detested representations,
and could not understand reason.

Had a hint been offered that she might find
in her dear Mr Newbattle's dear daughters,
characters already moulded, and wills formed

which she might strive in vain to alter, the
width to which her round blue orbs would
have extended would have been alarming.
Such a thing could not possibly be. No ; her
settlement could no more be inadequate, nor
her jewellery disappointing, than could she
find herself deceived in her sweetest children
her Alice, Kate, Bertha, and Marjorie,  all
their names quite pat, tripping off her tongue
in accents that were nothing short of caressing.


Alice, Kate, Bertha, and Marjorie were, it mayas
well be confessed at once, likely to give such
fond anticipations a deadly shock.

The elder two had been permitted to bring
themselves up after the usual fashion agreeable
to young ladies who have only an absent-minded
indulgent father at their head  that is to say,
they had learned as little or as much as they
chose, under a governess who was aware that
she was in their power, for better, for worse ;
and they had virtually emancipated themselves
from all rules, even while nominally remaining
in the schoolroom.

At the respective ages of seventeen and sixteen
they had assured their parent, who willingly

took their, word for it, that their education
was complete  and that a nursery governess,
whom they themselves selected, and who, strange
to say, was really a sensible person, if not precisely
superior, was all that was necessary for
the younger ones.

Kate was thus free to read poetry and make
extracts, and Alice to ruminate before her .


Not that Alice was the handsomer of the
two  far from it ; but she was a full year and
a half older than her sister, and had learned
to know that she had a nose, a neck, and a
chin.

Moreover, the time she thought was at hand
for her to display her charms, and it was natural
that they should be of more moment to her
than if she had been still drudging over her
books.

Books were a nuisance ; she had had enough
of them ; she wanted to dress, chatter, and
dance  to see and be seen ; and, so far, she was
not certainly unlike others of her age. Kate
might look scornful, but, for all that, the feeling
was natural enough ; it was the root of the
matter which was somehow not straight, the

shallowness and vacuity of mind which induced
the vanity.

Aware that she was surpassed in appearance
by her next sister, it was Alice's intention to
excel in other points of attraction. She would
be more amiable, prettily behaved, obliging, and
attentive. She would not openly demand ' Love
me more than Kate ; think more highly of me
than of her,"  but her mode of extorting a preference
amounted to little less. It was her right
to proffer civilities ; to be at home when visitors
called. An opportunity of showing her smiles
and her thoughtfulness was courted. She liked
to be the single one of the four to strike out a
new thing, tread a new path,  and would go to
church twice on a Sunday in order to show that
she was the only member of the household who
did so.

Kate was different : a curious, unexplored,
reticent girl ; sometimes so amusing that her
sisters shrieked over her sallies ; but usually
grave, absent - minded, and lost in her own
thoughts. When roused from these, it was too
often by something which excited her contempt
or indignation. Nothing sly, nothing slippery
dared be attempted if the second sister were by

any chance likely to hear of it, since to face her
wrath was more than the other three severally,
or in unison, cared to run the risk of doing,
even while, behind her back, they would shrug
their shoulders and raise their pretty eyebrows,
thanking their stars that they had not her
temper.

It was an unfortunate possession in the eyes
of all, and gave them, each one, a superiority
over the unpopular member of the family.
Even Maidie, a typical spoilt child, who was
wont to obtain her own way by dint of tears
and piteousness, would be shocked at Kate ;
while Bertha would prim up her lips, and look
meek, by way of contrast.

Bertha was the least noticeable of the four
in every way, and, poor girl, was sufficiently
aware of being so, even at the age of thirteen, to
make her peevish and fretful, since she had not
humility of mind nor sweetness of disposition
sufficient to enable her to accept her inferiority
without repining. Without Alice's good looks,
she had a resemblance to her eldest sister, which,
had fortune been equally kind to her in the
way of outward gifts, would probably have
manifested itself strongly: as it was, she could

VOL. I. G

only long, with equal intensity, to be admired
and approved, and have the constant mortification
of feeling that neither admiration nor approval
was likely to fall to her share. The
little Marjorie,  a great girl of eleven, who, after
the manner of family fictions, was still called
' little," though on a larger scale than any one
of the others, and likely soon to overtop them
all  the little Maidie, as she was called,  was
the favourite among the rest. She was a smiling,
sunny-faced mischief-monger ; and the understanding
was that she could do no wrong,
a tradition easy to keep up, since everything
became right when stamped with her authority.
Such were the four daughters to whom
Mr Newbattle of Carnochan was about to give
the Lady Olivia Evelyn as a step-mother. How
little idea any one of them had of any such
impending catastrophe, and indeed how far
was it from their parent's own contemplations
but a few weeks previous to his meeting with
the lady in question, may be gathered from the
following.

*' Papa," from Alice, one day early in March,
*' how lucky it is that you have at last got
through your horrid lawsuit, and that we should

be SO comfortably settled with the servants and
all, just when it is so important on my account !
Everything will be left in good order, and you
will have no anxieties to disturb you when the
time comes for you to bring me out."

He made no answer, and it was too probable
that he had understood nothing. She must try
again.

Do you not think, papa, that it would bean
excellent idea to have this green damask
transferred to the library when we are obliged
to have new covers for the drawing-room ? I
am a great economist, you know, papa, and I
have thought it all over. The damask is really
not too old and shabby for the library, though
it is far too much worn for the drawing-room.
It has done very well so far ; but of course by-and-by,
when we begin to have people about,
and to give dinners, we must have things a
little nice."

Why cannot she say, ' Papa, I want new
furniture, and I want company, and to lead a
different life ' ? Why cannot papa tell her to
speak out, and not try to wheedle him into consenting
to he does not know what ? " muttered
the downright Kate, in scorn.

Alice, however, knew her cue ; and she succeeded
so far, that whereas a blunt request
would have been met by a blunt denial, her
delicate insinuations knocked nobody over.

They began to work, moreover.

First of all was exhibited an attention not
often paid ; to this succeeded uneasiness, and
finally depression.

What was the meaning of all this about
'going away," and giving dinners, and damask,
and things ? What was that hint about
a new carriage '? that whisper of an increased
allowance '?

Could it be that there was more in all this
than mere girlish love of tormenting ? They
always had tormented him, those girls of his ;
but he had generally settled them by giving in,
and telling them to let him alone. It seemed
now, however, it actually seemed as though
no such easy conclusion to the matter were to
be permitted.
The threatening grew more ominous daily.

The air felt heavy with portentous rumblings.


Was it possible that some deep-rooted fell
conspiracy was on foot wholly to disturb and

break up the even tenor of his life ? Could his
own flesh and blood be, in stern reality, meditating
a course so vile 1

He looked at his daughters, and thrills of
apprehension trickled through every vein.

Good heavens 1 they were grown up  they
were women. They wore long gowns, and had
knotted up their hair.

It was no longer a case of a new pony or a
book ; it was a question of dressmakers, balls,
lovers, settlements  misery upon misery.

"Do let papa alone." Kate was the speaker,
and she had a flush on her cheek and a frown
on her brow as she addressed her eldest sister.
Do let papa alone, Alice. Surely you have
worried him enough for the present with your
chaperones, and your fidgets, and your nonsense."


'' That is all very well for you ; you would
never think of such a thing as a chaperone.
You would think that I could go about everywhere
with only poor dear papa. As if I could !
Besides which, it would be really cruel to him.
He must escort me to certain things ; but there
are others to which it will be absolutely necessary
that I should be taken by a lady. That's

what Mrs Popham says, so I suppose you will
believe it."

Now, what Mrs Popham said was dogma in
the Carnochan household. When papa, who
was listening to the last remarks, though he
tried hard not to show it, heard the name of
Mrs Popham, he groaned aloud.

'' What, papa '? " said Alice, attentively.

'' Nothing, my dear  nothing." (" Ah,"
sighed the poor gentleman, inwardly, *' it was
Mrs Popham, was it '? That was an ill turn
of Mrs Popham to do me")

He had just before been turning over in his
mind the expediency of seeking counsel from
this old family friend ; but her name, thus introduced
between the combatants, struck that
ground from beneath his feet.

He saw pretty well how it was. Pretty
Susie Popham, who was just one year Alice's
senior, had, he knew, been taken up to London
the summer before, and had made her entry
into society there. She had been much with
his girls subsequently,  oh, far, far too much.
She must have had a hand in all the brewing of
this atrocious brows.

Cruel Mrs Popham ! Foolish parent of a frivolous

child ! could any one have believed that
she, his own familiar friend, would have served
him thus ?

And as to his own girls, he was altogether
now at a loss.

Feelers, thrown out in fresh directions daily,
harassed him, till he knew not what to do or
say; for though he would fain not have listened,
and certainly did frequently permit the broadest
allusions to pass unchallenged, he had never
been so quick in hearing in his life. Let him
be in the very heart of his newspaper or his
book, the first word let drop on one or other of
the dreadful topics, like the first boom of the
enemy's cannon before an engagement, fell on
his ear, a knell of horror.

He was wide-awake in a moment, and shivering.

Bertha's ill-used airs and Marjorie's questions
bore to his excited fancy as evil presages as did
their eldest sister's endless side-hints and her
wrangling with the more considerate younger.
He hated to hear Alice on the defensive, as
much as Kate expostulating. All seemed to
his astonished and enlightened spirit to bear on
the one theme, and he could not endure the
sight of Mrs Popham's shawl in the avenue.

f

CHAPTER VI.

ME Newcastle SUCCUMBS TO HIS FATE.

I myself, vanquished, with a peal of words
Gave up my fort of silence to a woman."

Samson Agonies.

Matters stood thus when the Squire fell in
with Lady Olivia.

He thought that he had never seen so fine a
woman. Everything she wore was pretty, and
everything she said was pleasant.

She was charmed with Scotland and the
Scotch people ; she wondered how anybody
could ever care to leave the dear romantic
country, with its beautiful hills, woods, and
glens. Glens ? was she not right ? Were not
those exquisite, wild-looking, heathery valleys
called glens ? She thought so,  yes.

Oh, she must taste the whisky. Only a very,
very little  dear ! stop ! that was far too much.

But how good it was, though it did make her
cough ! Everything indeed was good about
Scotland, just as everything was beautiful.

She was sure it was a beautiful part of the
country where Mr Newbattle lived,  indeed it
must be, for she had never seen, and she did
not believe there existed, any part that was not.
Did  ahem  did his property lie on the coast ?

Inland ? Oh ?

But near the coast ? Oh, indeed ?

After all, it was better to be only near the
coast than actually on it. The seaside was
often depressing, especially in winter. Winter
storms were terribly depressing.

Did Mrs Newbattle  oh, she begged his pardon.
She was so very, very sorry.

To think of her having made such a cruel
blunder ; she who ought to have been the very
last person in the whole world to have been so
wickedly thoughtless, having herself endured a
like loss. She could never forgive herself.

Presently, however, it was 'I scarcely dare
venture again, my dear Mr Newbattle, but I
thought I heard some one just now mention your
daughter ? Am I right ? Have you a daughter
left to solace you ? "

She was right : he owned to the solace four
times repeated ; he had four solaces.

Indeed '? And I have but one son. I see
so little of him now either, that it seems as if I
were altogether alone in the world." Wonderful
admission ! Iut the reader will understand in
what it originated.

'' He is in the Life Guards," continued Lady
Olivia, burning to launch out upon her favourite
theme ; but prudence prevailed. It would not
do to neglect the four daughters for the sake of
the one son, and she returned to the charge.
'' They are but young, I presume, Mr Newbattle ;
you will have them with you at home for a long
while yet ? "

That I cannot say. The eldest is nearly
eighteen."

Eighteen '? The lady tried amazement, though
her squire was bald and grey. " Eighteen ? My
dear Mr Newbattle ! "

'' Eighteen, ma am. And thinks herself quite
a woman."

"You have introduced her, then, and taken
her into the world ? "

Aha ! even here  even here he was not
to escape. The loathed necessity was drawing

daily its  chill mantle closer round
him.

No, Lady Olivia," he answered, gloomily,
I have done nothing of the sort  as yet. The
time will come soon enough. She is ready, at
all events."

And can you wonder at it ? Take a mother s
advice," merrily ; " send her into society as fast
as you can,  marry her, and have done with it.
Ha, ha, ha ! "

If I could send her, indeed," said the poor
laird, ruefully. His nightmare was not the
sending of her, but the taking her himself.

And why not ? " inquired his new friend.
Why not '? Get some elderly relation, some
sister or sister-in-law, some one who knows the
world, who would give your daughter consequence,
and who has nothing else to do, to undertake
their charge. It is not, indeed, for you
to be troubled," tenderly.

Nice woman, this. Saw things in the right
way. Of course it was not for him to be
troubled ; but that, those four inconsiderate
young she-rascals at home never thought of.

Still, the idea, though soothing, was impracticable,
for one good reason.

'' I have not a sister or sister-in-law in the
world," replied he.

How sad ! " Lady Olivia's eyes sparkled.
She did not open them in her unpleasing fashion,
but they shone and glittered round the poor
bewildered fly, whom she was metaphorically
inviting to "walk up." By-and-by he had
told her every single thing about himself and
his troubles, and she had sympathised as surely
no one had ever sympathised with him before.

He, too, was informed of all that it was well
he should know about herself and her surroundings,
 where she usually lived, how independent
she was, how unfettered, yet how homeless.
Also why she had come to Edinburgh.

She had come to Edinburgh for the end of
the Edinburgh season, for no other reason than
that she did so love the people, and the customs,
and the ways of the place. She adored everything
but the climate. The climate was  well,
she would not say what it was. It, too, must
really be forgiven, when all besides was so
brilliant, so gay, so fascinating. She supposed
Mr Newbattle brought his family to Edinburgh
every spring ?

It proved to be her first wrong shot. He had

brought them sometimes; he never  viciously 
meant to bring them again. He was only up
himself on business.

However, the false move was speedily put to
rights. It was found to be Scotland, not Edinburgh,
that was Lady Olivia's dream of beauty ;
and directly she had learned in what county
Carnochan was, she was prepared with raptures
about the treacherous Sol way, with its tides and
shifting sands, that would have done credit to
the most youthful votary of Scott and Burns.

Finally, he was invited to Evelyn Towers, and
he was to bring Alice thither.

He did not say whether he would or not, but
he smiled, blushed, blinked his eyes, and spoke
to no one else for the remainder of the evening.
In short, the old fellow was fooled to the top of
his bent, and went away confused and delirious
as though with wine.

He had very little to do in the meetings
which took place afterwards, and very little to
say at the interviews. All was managed for
him, and he had only to dilate now and then
upon his own concerns, enumerate his ancestors,
and describe the extent and nature of his estates.

In doing this he felt at home, and would wax

eloquent ; while Lady Olivia listened attentively.
He had never before met with any one who was
so easily entertained. He had but to talk of
his house, his gardens, or his horses, and she
would stop whatever she was saying to hearken
to him.

At length the glorious meaning of the whole
dawned upon his bursting brain. He stared,
gaped, considered, and thought it would do.

He would not be too precipitate, would not
spoil everything by being in too great a hurry,
would certainly make sure still surer first,  but
still he meant business.

Here was the very chance he had been hoping
for, and wellnigh despairing of. Here was a clue
to guide him out of all his recent labyrinth of
perplexities. Here was a deliverer who would
satisfy all, and give offence to none.

Here, in short, was a dashing woman of fashion
and fortune, ready to step into the horrible
breach which otherwise he must himself be prepared
to hold, and save him from the threatened
danger. She had never for a moment allowed
him to hope that such a danger could be otherwise
averted ; pity for the trials and annoyances
into which he must presently plunge, had not

been once allowed to take the place of the decree
which pointed out the path of duty as the one
he must inevitably take ; and although he was
condoled with, he was given no hope of anything
in the shape of so much as a reprieve.

But a way of escape was open, if Lady Olivia
were really in earnest in other things she said ;
if he could believe that she would really be
willing to settle down at the old place, assisting,
moreover, its not too heavy rent-roll with
her comfortable jointure,  and to undertake
all his affairs, including the intractable young
ones.

What a fine thing it would be for them all !
The girls would be satisfied, their father would
be saved, and he could snap his fingers in Mrs
Popham's face.

His mind was made up in a trice.

Ha, ha, ha ! They did not give him credit
for being so clever. One and all would think
more of him hereafter, when he should have
carried through this grand exploit.

He would not tell them too soon. Let them
plot and plan a little longer, busying themselves
with the wily machinations that had made his
life a burden to him of late : he would sweep

their cobwebs on one side presently ; he would
make them all jump on to their feet.

Little did any of them think what he was after.

Like it '? They might like it, or they might
not,  that was their own affair. If not, they
had only themselves to thank for it : they might
take this for their comfort, that they had made
their own bed, and must lie on it.

It was to insure a moment's peace, immunity
from the continual dinning of the same subject
into his ears, that he had betaken himself away
from home for a season, and it was to this escapade
that they should owe the arrangement in
prospect.

Ha, ha, ha ! He laughed again at the idea.

He planned how he would announce the
news. On their account, of course, it was to
be, that he had put himself out of his way.
For their sakes, he had considered it advisable
to confer on the family circle so valuable an
addition. He had understood that they felt the
need of some older person of their own sex,
some discreet and experienced friend, now that
they were advanced to years of womanhood ;
and he had felt that he could not do better for
them than provide them with a step-mother.

Whatever they wanted in future, lie reflected,
they might go to Lady Olivia for. Let them
carry all their plots and their petitions to her,
and see what she would do for them. If she
chose to fall in with their views, to burden herself
with their trumpery absurdities, well and
good ; he would have no objection, and there
would be no excuse for any further pestering
of him.

Nothing should make him interfere ; that
was one point on which he was decided. They
should fight their own battles, and he should at
length be allowed to return to that peace and
quiet which his soul loved.

All his former habits of gentle selfishness
rose pleasantly before his view, and were loud
in approbation of the course he meditated,  and
since, after all, if a man may not please himself
when nobody else belonging to him is solicitous
of the honour, it is hard to say when he may.
Lady Olivia had taken his fancy, and fancy
was backed up by every other feeling and
motive.

The engagement took place, and fell like a
thunderbolt at Carnochan.

Papa !

VOL. I. H

In that one word was expressed the grief,
amazement, and derision of his daughters.

Of all men in the world, Papa !

To them he was merely a bald-headed, clean-shaved,
dinner - loving, church - going, elderly-gentleman.
He had always answered the purpose
so far as they were concerned, had duly
given them dessert after dinner while they
were children, and guineas on birthdays when
they were older. Although he had not cared
to join their walks or rides, he had provided
them with ponies and carriages ; and if he fell
asleep over their music, he had never refused
them tickets for concerts when in Edinburgh.

Altogether, papa had done very well; they
had never known any other papa, and they
were satisfied with the one they had.

As for thinking that he could ever give them
trouble,  that it was he, and not they, who
should reorganise the order of their days  that
anything more terrible could happen than that
he might be hard to stir up, and kick over the
traces a little at each of Alice's innovations, 
such a notion had never once entered their
heads ; nor would they have believed it within
the limits of possibility that he should have

dared to think and act for himself in a matter
of such delicacy, involving such results, had the
words in his own handwriting not been plainly
set before their outraged and disgusted vision.

Verily he had turned the tables !

And who had instigated him to the terrible
deed 1 Not Mrs Popham ; she was the last person
to approve. Mr Macknight, the steward ?
No ; Mr Macknight's position would suffer too
much. Mr Maxwell, the lawyer '? Least likely
of all ; he was the girls' best friend.

Nevertheless it must have been some one, all
agreed  since everybody knew that papa would
never have so much as thought of such a thing
if he had been let alone ; and at length the four,
united in their common wretchedness, pitched
by good hap upon the guilty person.

She must have done it. She, this Lady
Olivia, this "kind and sensible person," who
was to " take their dear mother's place,"  she
was the culprit.

And papa to talk of his ' good fortune,' and
the ' agreeable surprise he is giving us,' and his
consulting our happiness'! " cried the indignant,
penetrating Kate, flinging down the letter ; " it
is hypocrisy and deceitfulness from beginning

to end ! It is the way he always goes on whenever
he has done anything he knows he ought
not. He does not dare to speak out. If he
chooses to  to  to "

'rand just now of all times' whimpered
Alice. 'rit is worse for me than for any one
of you. I had arranged everything ; and that,
papa knew very well,  for I talked before him
quite openly. I had got down the new patterns
for the drawing-room covers, all ready to show
him as soon as he came back."

"They will do for the bride," said her sister,
bitterly.

And what are we to call her 1 Must we
get ready our own dear mamma's rooms for a
stranger 1 Must we see this Lady Olivia take
her place at the head of the dinner-table "

Oh, hold your tongue," sobbed Kate.

Mr Newbattle prudently resolved to postpone
his return to Carnochan until he had felt his
way a little ; so nothing was said on that subject
in the letter which contained the great
announcement,  and the return post showed
him the wisdom of his decision.

Alice indeed, with precocious diplomacy, endeavoured
to insert some prettily-turned phrases

which should win for her favour in the eyes of
the new-comer, into her composition, as well
as to suppress in it all appearance of her real
sentiments. The thing being done, there was
no help for it. She choked down her dismay,
and composed as elegant an epistle as she
could.

But even she could not bring herself to do
more  she could not produce warmth or pleasure
; while the volleys fired off by Kate and the
younger ones were honest outbursts of affection,
resentment, and reproach.

But they all felt alike, nevertheless; and
though the laird's eyes twinkled on perusing
his eldest daughter's effusion, and he pronounced
it a sensible, well-expressed letter 
while he only grew red in the face over Kate's,
and thrust it down to the bottom of his
breeches-pocket,  he would not perhaps have
made such a distinction could he have seen into
the hearts of the several writers.

As it was. Miss Newbattle's dutiful note was
shown to Lady Olivia ; and he felt all the luck
of its being from his eldest daughter. A second
daughter can be suppressed without exciting
remark ; but had his first-born expressed herself

improperly, it might have been awkward. As
for the young ones, Bertha and Marjorie, their
poor little pin-pricks never even scratched, for
he forgot to open the envelopes.

Lady Olivia retained the composition of her
dear step-daughter to be, and showed it round
to all who came to see the presents.

She was really gratified to have such a billet
to produce, since, although the penmanship was
indifferent, and there was a positive mistake in
the spelling, the sentiments were entirely what
they should have been ; and the whole was well
put together, and cleverly calculated to please.
In such a matter Alice could shine ; it afforded
scope for all the ability she possessed.

By next day's post there arrived at Carnochan
an envelope of the thickest, glossiest texture,
and of the most unmanageable shape. There
was not a moment's doubt from whom it came.

Three sheets of tiny note-paper, with about a
dozen words on each page, were at that time
the correct style of correspondence in fashionable
circles ; and accordingly, three sheets were
duly found within. The writing, however, was
much closer together than need have been, for
Lady Olivia was that pest of friendship, an inveterate

scribe On any and every occasion
she would, should, and must communicate with
her acquaintance at large ; and the present was
too valuable an opportunity for displaying her
rounded periods, and her gushing happiness,
not to be eagerly embraced.

She had begged leave to be allowed to write ;
and since such was the case, Mr Newbattle
thought he need not. There was no occasion
for two letters. Would she be so Q:ood as to
mention that he did not intend returning home
at present 1

In his own mind he had pretty well resolved
to defer meeting with his daughters until he
should face them under the wing of his august
consort. They must come up for the wedding ;
and here, in Edinburgh, with Lady Olivia by
his side, and amid all the novelty and gaiety
by which he was now surrounded, he could bea
bolder man than he could ever hope to feel
himself within the grey walls of his own old
tower.

Something of the tumult going on there, in
the household as well as in the family, had
escaped in the second letters of the girls ; Maxwell
too, his lawyer, with whom he was now incommunication,

had shaken his head, smiling,
over the subject : and he felt it was only due to
his own peace of mind to keep out of the whole
mess.

Once he was observed to chuckle and rub
his hands merrily. He was reflecting on the
stopper he had put on all such insubordination
for the future.

Quarrels, and grievances, and nonsense he
could not stand  and indeed he had always
been useless when appealed to in a fray; but
now he dwelt with satisfaction on the relief it
would be to have a wife whose province it
would become to inquire into and adjust all
matters of dispute. No, no; he would let
them alone for the present, and for the future
they would have to let him alone.

As it was, Mr Newbattle enjoyed his few
weeks of courtship with a zest that was astonishing
to himself.

He drove with hisjlancee, and dined daily at
the house where she was staying ; and in the
intervals he stood in the bay-window of his
club.

Nobody interfered with him, nor worried him,
nor made demands upon him. He was perfectly

independent, and did just what he liked,
and what suited him, all day long.

Old fogies joked him, tailors measured him,
his lawyer managed for him. Lady Olivia smiled
upon him. He himself did nothing, and that
was all he ever cared to do.

Carnochan seemed a long way off from all
that pleasant bustle and genial idleness. His
four angry girls could wait ; he was not going
to thrust himself into that lion's den again in a
hurry.

What '? Go back to be the victim of a paltry
persecution, and hear nothing but whining and
unpleasantness all day long ? Not he ; he had
put up with that sort of thing too long. It
was monstrous disagreeable to be always dictated
to ; he could not call his soul his own, he
had been so overridden of late.

And to be sure. Princes Street was excessively
amusing on the sunny March afternoons ;
the Exhibition of paintings was open, and all
his old cronies were up, either en garden like
himself, or with their wives and daughters for
the balls.

He met some of them every day ; and they
were so hearty, and congratulatory, and funny

about his love affair, that he began to feel himself
quite a dog, and wondered what he had
been about to keep away from them all so long.

Lady Olivia, on her part, left nothing to be
desired. She was so full of her own cares and
pleasures, that she accepted gratefully whatever
time it suited her kind Mr Newbattle to bestow
on her, and only thought it too good of him to
give so much.

She would not hear of his putting himself
out of his way on her account. She would not
expect to see anything of him before three
o'clock ; he was always welcome, most welcome,
but he was never to feel bound to present himself
in Moray Place. After a short drive  it
was never too long  he would be dropped at
his club again, where the fine equipage in
which his lady sat with her friend as duenna
by her side, was as much admired as were her
velvet bonnet and her elegant bow. She would
lean over the side of the carriage  it was open,
and had an ostrich rug,  and exchange parting
words under the large window wherein the
gentlemen stood ; and then she would wave her
little hand, and smile, and bend her head as her
horses dashed away again. No one could less

resemble a widow,  she might not be " Miss,"
but she was certainly not "Mrs ;" and he liked
to hear his friends say ' Lady Olivia."

Evelyn did not do more for his mother on
this occasion than on others ; but he was not
needed, and she scolded him quite amicably.
Even his absence on her marriage-day was not
resented, since, with a tall son of eight-and-twenty
at her back, she could hardly have
passed as the still moderately young woman
marrying a man many years her senior which it
was her desire to do. In reality she was forty-nine,
but she hoped to pass for much less. However,
even forty-nine, she reflected, thinking of
the Dean, and of Mr Maxwell, and the register,
even forty-nine was not fifty, and she need
never again be under the necessity of owning
even to forty-nine.

She was in excellent health and looks, and
rather expected, in spite of what the Squire
must certainly have said about her appearance,
to dazzle his daughters, and take their hearts by
storm.

They came, and she it was who was dazzled ;
she was so much taken up by them, that she
actually forgot herself. Oh, she would have no

difficulty, no difficulty whatever, in finding husbands
for such girls. Why had their father not
told her what to expect 1 why had he never
mentioned that he had such lovely treasures
hid 1 Two such pretty creatures (Alice was
charmed for once to be bracketed with Kate),
two such, she vowed, she had seldom seen ;
while Marjorie was a little angel ; and even
Bertha was made happy by hearing that she
had something wonderfully piquant and interesting
in her countenance.

Before the bride left, she had kissed them all
round, and in the plenitude of her satisfaction,
had felt as if the only crook in her lot were
really about to turn into the blessing she had
been determined all along to consider it.

CHAPTEK VII.

I INTEND TO DO MY DUTY."

But to climb steep hills,
Requires slow pace at first."

Henri VIII.

But, alas ! a kingdom conquered leaves a kingdom
to be ruled ; and Lady Olivia Newbattle,
when she presently made her triumphal entry
up the long avenue of Carnochan, with flags
flying, bells ringing, and tenantry shouting, all
in due order, was but little fitted for the post
she was so keen to hold. If she had ever consulted
any one's happiness but her own, it had
been that of her first husband; and he had been
so long dead, that she had forgotten altogether
what putting up with another person's whims,
and yielding to his desires, meant.

She expected to be waited upon when at
home  made much of abroad ; and for seven-and

-twenty years her expectations had been
fulfilled.

Servants could not dispute her orders, nor
acquaintances pry into and disarrange her daily
life. She did what she chose from hour to hour,
and passed even to herself as an amiable, good-humoured
person.

But if the old laird of Carnochan had chosen
one woman less fitted than another to head a
house where commotions were frequent, where
Alice had constant mysteries wherewith to vex
Kate, and where Marjorie's tyrannies were the
theme of Bertha's disregarded complaints, that
woman was Lady Olivia. Only the firmest,
wisest, gentlest, and most forbearing of stepmothers
could have had success; and not a single
one of those attributes was possessed by the new
mistress of Carnochan.

Added to which, the bride had been for the
last month on a pinnacle of success from which
it was scarcely to be expected that she should
not some day have a fall.

All had been too bright, too uniformly glittering.
She was intoxicated with her triumph,
with the delight of finding herself once again
capable of inspiring ardour, and with the vista

opened up before her by a union in every way
so eligible. It was an unfortunate time to take
for having her head turned.

All the weak points of a weak nature showed
themselves at once, and in their turn drew forth
the worst qualities of her step-daughters.

Alice had recourse to fibs and petty stratagems
; Kate openly rebelled ; while the younger
ones sided by turns with each sister, and
learned far more than they ought to have done.

Only a few months had passed ere the whole
household was in disturbance ; and how serious
was the entanglement, how resolute the combatants,
and what a life poor Mr Newbattle led
through it all, may be imagined by any one.

As regarded external circumstances, however,
Lady Olivia had no need to withdraw one iota
of her former exultation.

She had not been deluded by a needy adventurer
deeply in debt, nor the prey of a poor
proprietor propping up a rotten estate ; in no
single point had the Squire exaggerated the
size of his lands, or the extent of his establishment.
Carnochan was all that he had described
it.

Long avenues, shaded by well-grown and

carefully-preserved trees, led up to the house on
either side ; and a shrubbery and lawns, judiciously
laid out, and in excellent order, further
met the eye on first approach: There was also
the lake with swans on it, which she had been
taught to expect.

The mansion itself was very old, and to Lady
Olivia's eyes the windows were unfortunately
small ; but she forgave their not being of greater
dimensions when she beheld their number, and
reflected that although the front entrance was
narrow, it was shaded by a portico.

Nor was she, on the whole, displeased with
the rooms within ; they were long and bare, 
she could fill them as full as she chose.

The great thickness of the walls, however,
was what really afforded her astonishment and
acute delight.

It was something to be surrounded by walls
from six to seven feet in thickness, and soon six
and seven feet seemed paltry in her estimation ;
by the twentieth letter that she had written on
the subject they had grown to twelve, to fifteen,
to she really did not like to say what number
of feet !

Although accustomed to his mother's grandiloquence,

Evelyn was aware that she had
usually some basis on which to work, that she
was not altogether an originator ; and accordingly,
on the night he arrived at Carnochan
from Castle Kenrick, never having been there
before, as the reader wall have already learned,
the first thing he did was to investigate its
masonry.

Six months had elapsed since his mother's
marriage, but since leave was not desirable until
the autumn months made him think of Scotland,
he had not seen fit to alter his plans on that
account.

Even then, as we have seen, he had been in
no hurry ; but at length, on one of the last days
of September, not being able to " do things " at
Castle Kenrick, he had bethought him that,
after all, since he was expected at Carnochan,
it might be as well not to disappoint 'em."

He was very well pleased with all he saw ashe
approached the house ; and as for the walls,
he was really surprised to find that his mother
had exaggerated so little. It was nothing to add
five feet to walls that were already seven ; and
although he could not calculate proportions at a
first survey, he could perceive that he had never

VOL. I. I

seen anything like them before, and acknowledged
the fact.

Mr Newbattle was only too happy to afford
him further information ; it was something to
talk about ; and whilst thus engaged, no one
could find fault with him.

Before the arrival of his magnificent step son,
he had been tutored to remember this and avoid
that, till his original timidity had given place
to a sort of nervous terror whenever Captain
Evelyn's name was mentioned.

What if he should bang out with the very
thing he had been told to hold his tongue
about ?

What if the subject that he had been expressly
forbidden to mention should slip from
him unawares,  or if he forgot that which he
had been instigated to bring forward '?

It was with infinite relief that he found himself,
the dreaded introduction over, comfortably
talking about windows. His visitor was conducted
round the room, and made to stand in
each recess ; and he was finally lodged in the
doorway leading to the library, and told how
comical it was that he should be there close to
Lady Olivia's chair, and yet be invisible to her.

when the door, opened before he had time to
escape a smart rap on the shoulder.

Oh, that is you, Alice," said Lady Olivia,
joining in the laugh graciously. " Come in,
my dear. This is Alice, Eupert ; and Alice,
this is your big brother. Is that it ? Is he to
be allowed to be your brother '? "

Alice smiled and bridled, feeling sure she had
no objection.

'* And here are the little ones 1 " continued
my lady, as the long-legged Bertha and chubby
Marjorie followed. " And our only absentee is
Kate. She is away on a visit, as it happens.
Otherwise we are all here ; and so glad, so very
glad, to see you, dear Eupert."

Evelyn, who was fond of children, would have
made friends at once  nothing amused him
more than to amuse  but he soon found this
was not to be. Directly his mother found that
any one was talking but herself, she had a
message to be run, or a job to be attended to ;
and on the little girls emitting at the same
moment one joyful laugh  the cat had jumped
over the back of their father's arm-chair 
they were summarily packed off to the far
end of the room. " Children," said Lady

Olivia, with a sigh, "are always either awkward
or noisy."

She then proceeded to what she called a comfortable
chat ; and since she has not before been
exhibited in her normal state, we subjoin a
sample of her conversation, which will also,
perhaps, serve to explain the reason why her
society was not of first-rate importance to her son.

Do tell me, my dear boy, who you had at
Castle Kenrick ? I know you always do manage
to fall in with nice people. Who are those
Bre wasters ? I don't know the name. And, by
the way, did I ever tell you who we came across
the only day we were in Paris ? Lord Tyburn.
So very strange, was it not ? And he
was really most friendly, quite affectionate ; his
mother, you remember, had been so charmed to
meet me again at the Anthony-Burnett's last
autumn. She had told him all about it. You
recollect Lady Weyburn ? Do you not 1 Oh
yes, I know you do, my dear, for it was at Sir
James Thornton's that she told me she had seen
you. Don't you remember '? "

Well, yes," said Evelyn ; " I daresay I do."
He had just contrived to hide a yawn behind
the fingers which pulled his long moustache.

and daresay he remembered Lady Weyburn
to hide the achievement.

Lord Weyburn, the father, was quite a
friend of your father, when they were young
men together. His sister married a Colonel
Jenkynson,  really good Jenkynsons, though it
is such a name  when you spell it with a ' y '
it does not look so bad,  and he was a man of
large fortune, and member for the county. I
will tell you who he was connected with  the
Lotteringham family. Either his sister married
Lord Lotteringham, or Lord Lotteringham was
his wife's brother  I forget which ; but one
way or other, he and Colonel Jenkynson were
brothers-in-law. "

Oh yes." (How his mother did bother about
people.) For his part, Evelyn felt that he would
have liked to have had a word or two from the
pretty, demure-looking Alice, who sat so modestly
by with her hands folded, or to have made his
way to the corner and played tricks with the
young ones : and to be sure, it would have been
only decent manners to have included some of
the Newbattle family in what was going on ; the
old gentleman, or the girls, should not have been
altogether excluded. But Lady Olivia's manners

were too good for home consumption, and she
disregarded his inattention and short replies
quite as much on this occasion as she had ever
done before.

Well, but now, Eupert, tell me all that you
have been doing, and what places you have been
to ? You come from Castle Ken rick ; that I
know. Before you went there, you were at
Seamount : I must hear about Seamount first.
Was dear Mary Belly there ? "

Is she not always there '? "

Well, but did you have any chat with her ?
Alas she friendly ? Was she well '? Did she
send any messages ? "

Not that I am aware of."

''- Was Lady Seamount at home ? "

"Yes."

'' And the sons ? "

Yes."

I always think they are such nice young
men."

Oh '? " (nice young scamps") Evelyn put
out his lips, and the above passed through his
mind, but where was the use of saying it '?

*' Henry Waters was there, with his wife," he
said, aloud.

Ah," rejoined his mother, " what a sad match
that was ! I never could bear the thought of
that Henry Waters getting my charming Gertrude.
I wonder her parents allowed it."

Come now," said Evelyn, with more animation
than he had hitherto evinced ; "I don't
agree with you at all. Henry Waters is the
best of the whole bunch, to my mind."

Of his whole bunch, I daresay. But we
were talking of the Amounts. To marry into
such a family  with such connections, and Gertrude
having her own fortune besides  it was
what he ought never to have presumed to
aspire to."

He is worth them all put together."

My dear Eupert ! "

Of course he is. I know. He is as good
a fellow as ever lived ; while the Seamount
men " a laugh supplied the rest.

I had no idea they were anything but
what was proper, I am sure," asserted Lady
Olivia, dropping her eyes. " Of course I cannot
judge. I cannot see young men when
they are by themselves. But I did grudge

Gertrude. Now if it had been you " in a

lower key.

'* Oho, ma'am ! sits the wind in that quarter ?
No, trust me, I was never in the lists even."

Well, but you have been at other places.
Is there no one  eh ? "

'* Not a soul."

You have heard of Mrs Beaumont's affair ? "

And of nothing else."

Shocking, was it not ? And the Harvey s,
what are they about ? "

*' I have no notion."

*the Demands and Stirling sent me such
beautiful presents. I had hoped to have had
some of them to meet you this week  some of
the Demands, I mean ; for the Stirling, though
very good sort of people, are not quite  quite
they are people of no family whatever, you
know."

Why, you used to be always with them."

But for this so many excellent reasons were
adduced, and he was so earnestly assured that
the friends in question had never been admitted
to any intimacy,  that there had never been
anything to warrant their expecting to be
made welcome to Carnochan,  that it would be
unfair to her new neighbours to present those
as specimens of Lady Olivia's connections and

acquaintance,  rtliat even his long-suffering gave
way, and he stole a sly look at his watch.

The evenings at Castle Kenrick, with their
solitary recreation  their inevitable billiards 
seemed lively as compared to making one of the
formal circle at Carnochan while Lady Olivia
talked.

Nevertheless, as days passed on, and visitors
came and went, the new surroundings, with
their attendant chain of fresh ideas and interests,
succeeded in some measure in chasing his
recent adventure out of Evelyn head.

Now that he was absolutely at Carnochan
House, he was not insensible to the fact of it
being his mother's home : the girls were all
ready and willing to be made friends with ; nor
was Mr Newbattle, although reserved in manner
and peculiar in his habits, an altogether uninteresting
study. When encouraged, and taken in
the right way, and at the right time, he had
plenty to tell ; and the subjects he could converse
upon were infinitely more to his visitor's
taste than was the tasteless prattle of Lady
Olivia. Tales of poaching frays, of neighbours'
exploits, of the odd ways and humours of the
country people, together with reminiscences of

his young days, which had lain fallow in his
mind for twenty years, but which were now
brought forth to entertain his step-son, were
sufficiently worth listening to.

The house also was curious, and the histories
of its tapestry, armour, and pictures whiled away
odd hours.

He had not forgotten his dark-eyed incognita,
nor his intentions of going back some time soon
to see what she would say to such a return ;
but since he was but thirty miles off, and since
he could go any day, he was content to wait for
the day to be a convenient one.

Just at first his injured hand prevented his
shooting and fishing, but even then he could
examine the kennels and talk to the keepers.
Afterwards he had pretty fair sport, and a good
piece of ground to shoot over. As long as he
could get away from Lady Olivia, in short, he
was quite at his ease ; and there being a party
in the house, made up expressly on his account,
during the next fortnight, she could be dodged
successfully : but the very first morning after
their departure, he was unlucky enough to be
caught and pinned to her apron-string.

My dearest boy, do come here and sit down.

I have seen nothing of you for the last ten days,
positively nothing. Those people who are gone,
quite usurped you. Now let us sit down together,
just you and I alone, and have our nice
talks as we used to do. First of all, my dear
Eupert, you have never told me what you think
of my new connections. You cannot fail to
like Mr Newbattle, I am sure,"  she was in
excellent humour that morning  " and  and 
and  what do you think of his daughters ? "

*' Alice is very pretty."

*' Pretty 1 you think she is pretty 1 I am
glad of that. That was one think; I wished to
know. She is not particularly amiable "

Is she not ? "

By no means. Indeed I can assure you 
but perhaps I ought not to prejudice you, a
stranger ; and I am so anxious that you should
like her, should like them all  but really "

Oh, well, never mind."

'' It is her deceitfulness," burst forth Lady
Olivia, unable not to mind, and resolved to have
it out too. " She is the slyest creature in the
whole world, I believe. You have no idea, and
you would not believe it if I were to tell you,
the things that girl is capable of doing."

"I see you and she do not hit it off."

No, I should hope not. I must tell you
one thing she did lately. We were to dine at
the Pophams,  old-fashioned people, but of high
standing  the first people in the neighbourhood,
in short. Well, Alice had not been asked, naturally
; but she slipped over there by herself the day
before, with a geranium-cutting  fancy taking
a geranium-cutting to a place where they keep
ten gardeners !  and actually she manoeuvred
herself into an invitation. She never told anyone
of her intentions, and I am convinced she
was not wanted  the table would have been
quite full without her ; but Mrs Popham is an
easy woman, and allowed herself to be blindfolded.
I call it a most underhand trick ; the
whole thing was unworthy of Mr Newbattle's
daughter."

Oh, well," said Evelyn, in whose eyes the
offence was rather a joke than otherwise. But
when he had said " Oh, well," he could not, for
the life of him, think of an excuse. ,

And the little ones  or at least Bertha
is quite as absurd," continued Lady Olivia.
Have you noticed that oblique cast in her
eye ? It gives her a most unpleasant expression

" (it was no. longer piquant and interesting).
*' She ought to be at a good school, if I could
persuade myself to send any girl to school. I
have got them an excellent governess, as you
see ; she is greedy and selfish, but she had
first-rate recommendations, and I believe she
does know how to teach. I have done all
for the children that I can, I am sure," with
a sigh.

Well, and I am sure, ma'am, they  they are
obliged to you," looking about to escape.

*' I don't know about that. Regarding this
very governess, we had the most absurd fuss.
The girls had found one for themselves  for
Bertha and Marjorie, I mean  without consulting
anybody ; and such a creature as they
had got 1 Quite a low person, quite gross in her
speech and common in her manners ! It was
not her fault, you will say 1 Certainly not, but
it was a very great fault the way Kate behaved
about it all. However, I have no wish to trouble
you with family matters."

By the way, where is Kate ? "

She  well  she is away from home at present,
as you know. The fact is," continued
Lady Olivia, waxing confidential, '' that Kate, 

she is by far the handsomest and most destine
of them all, my dear Rupert, 
but she is a most unmanageable and  and  and
altogether impertinent girl. We had no peace,
no quiet, no proper rule or order, as long as she
was here ; and about this matter of changing
the governess, she actually disobeyed her father,
and defied me ! "

"Oh!"

* She was as stubborn as a mule; and since
she was not to be won over, her father was
obliged to  to send her away ; and she is with
that very person now. It is only for a time 
only till Mademoiselle Pierrepoint has got herself
fairly established here ; for had the younger
ones had Kate to fall back upon, they would
never have owned any authority. Oh, you can
have no idea how wild and unruly that girl
was ! "

So that was it ? "

'' Yes ; she stirred up everything that she
thought would undermine my supremacy, and
no one could do anything with her but that
Miss Comline "

'' Miss Comline ! " said Evelyn, with a start.

The children have talked to you about her,

I suppose. The foolish, headstrong girl took it
into her head that Miss Comline was ill-used :
it was the greatest nonsense, for I never ill-used
anybody in my life ; but she quite raved when
she heard what I had done. I had merely
written to Miss Comline privately, when she
was at home for her holidays last month, that
she was not the sort of person wanted for the
Miss Newbattles, and that it was a mistake
altogether her ever having been here. Could
anything have been kinder ? I only said it was
a mistake  I never hinted that it was any fault
of hers or of theirs. Miss Comline did not
object to what was done, I am sure. She made
no reply, and her father came to take away her
things. We should have had no scene, no disturbance
about the matter, but for Kate, with
her ridiculously-overstrung notions. She would
see the man himself, and  but it is no use going
over it all again."

How long ago," said Evelyn, slowly, " was
this?"

About a month. I put up with it as long
as I could  I did indeed," catching sight of her
son's face. " Indeed, my dear Eupert, it is all
very well for those who have never been in a

step-mother's place to think it is an easy one.

That, it is not. It "

And how long is Kate to stay away 1 "
'' That depends entirely on herself. She can
return any day she likes by choosing to submit
to me  to us, I mean  and own that she was in
the wrong. In that case I should counsel her
father to receive her back ; but otherwise," very
decidedly, " I certainly shall not. I intend todo
my duty, and it is no duty of mine to encourage
insubordination and disorder. We get
on now very fairly ; and by-and-by, we shall do
still better. Oh, it really was a blessing to get
Kate out of the house ! "

'' So that was Kate," said her son to himself,
meditating. ' Poor Kate ! "

CHAPTEK VIII.

OUT OF SIGHT IS OUT OF MIND.

Weak and irresolute is Man,
The purpose of 
with pains into his plan-tomorrow
rends away."

COWPER.

Poor Kate's handkerchief lay in his drawer upstairs
; and, truth to tell, he had been thinking
daily less and less about it.

He had thrust it into an empty place on first
unwinding it from his hand,  waiting, as he
believed, for an opportunity to have it washed
without remark ; but either the opportunity had
not come, or he had forgotten to embrace it.

Not that Evelyn was by nature inconstant ;
he was only young, light-hearted, and prosperous.
Pleasant things happened to him everyday,
and he found almost everybody nice, and
quite everybody kind.

VOL. I. K

He met so many people.

At every place he went to, lie converted
strangers into acquaintances, and acquaintances
speedily ripened into friends. Invitations poured
in upon him from all manner and conditions of
men, and the letters awaiting his arrival at Car-nolan
amounted to a perfect pile.

Lady Olivia, indeed, could not conjecture how
there came to be so many, since to her it had
been expressly stated that her son was unable to
give any addresses. She seemed to be the only
person thus cut off from communication, and
she eyed the army of envelopes dubiously.

Nor did she do so altogether without a cause,
for Evelyn was an excellent letter writer ; and
though he did not often sit down to the desk,
when he did, he could dash off a dozen notes
in an hour. Besides which, he was a sociable
fellow, who liked to be en rapport with heaps of
people, provided only they were good-humoured
and hearty, and had, as he would say, no nonsense
about them.

But, unfortunately, nonsense of the kind he
meant was precisely what his mother was full
of; and more, what she set a high value upon.
She could not forgive people who were simple

enough to dislike hearing their family pedigree
descanted upon ; and not to set store by every
eligible connection, not to make the most of
every visit paid to houses of note, as well as of
every distinguished personage met there, was,
in her eyes, a proof of ignorance and folly.

She wondered sometimes why her son bit his
lip. He could not bring himself to pander to
such a taste ; and when conversation wound
round to the strain Lady Olivia loved, he boreas
little part in it as ever he could.

In short, Evelyn was ashamed of his parent ;
and though he was perhaps unaware of the
fact himself, there was scarcely a person he had
ever known whom he could not get on with
better.

He felt instinctively that a large amount of
the attention she bestowed on him was due to
his position and means, that her affection was
begotten less of maternal instinct than of pride
and vanity, and that she spoke of him in a
manner that too frequently was humiliating and
ridiculous. To be hawked about in her train,
to be made to dance to her piping, put forward,
bragged of, and puffed off here, there, and everywhere,
he had early seen would be intolerable ;

and, while yet a schoolboy, he had declined the
position.

It followed that she was afraid of him, and
more solicitous about his good opinion than of
that of all the rest of the world put together.
With a considerable amount of trouble and
forethought, she had got together at Carnochan
people whom she was aware he would consider
were of the right sort ; and although she might
complain that they had usurped her darling
during their stay, she was in secret delighted
to reflect that all had passed off so well.

Had she known how much their presence had
done towards weakening in Evelyn's mind the
recollection of the episode which had made such
an impression on him previous to his arrival,
she would have been still better pleased. As it
was, now that the house was again empty, she
could not have chosen a worse time unwittingly
to unravel his secret.

All his former interest in it returned directly
in full force, and the impulse of a frank, outspoken
disposition was at once to relate his adventure,
and smile over the coincidence.

It was the length of Lady Olivia's tongue
which alone stopped the disclosure. He had a

moment for reflection, and in that moment's
interval there rose before him a vision of two
dark wet eyes shining like stars as he met
their full, imploring gaze, and there sounded
again in his ears those softly-spoken, yet most
sorrowful words, which had seemed so strange
in the mouth of one so young,  and all at once
he understood.

Her shame and mortification at being found
by him, by Lady Olivia's son, her new brother
after a fashion, in all the disgrace of a naughty
child, who has been turned out of the room, and
is discovered hanging about upon the stairs outside,
must have been at the root of those sullen
looks.

So that was why she had tried to pass undetected,
and had shunned his presence and
inquiries ?

That was the reason why she had been afraid
even to speak ? It was for fear of letting ou<J
her little twopenny-halfpenny secret ? He had
thought something much more lay beneath. It
was di. fiasco, the whole thing. However, since it
had been no joke to her,  and since, after all,
childish griefs are as great to the childish soul
as those in after-life are to the mature,  he

must be careful not to do nor say anything to
increase the discomfort of her situation. He was
partly entertained, and just a little bit let down.

It was certainly droll to find himself listening
to Lady Olivia's version of the story, with the
consciousness that he knew a great deal more
of the matter than her ladyship had any idea of ;
but he felt the tameness of her explanation
severely.

Another point was also cleared up. He knew
now of whom he was every now and then reminded
by Alice. There was no more than the
most general family resemblance between the
sisters ; but occasionally a movement or an expression
escaped which it had bothered Evelyn's
wits to think where or when he had observed
before.

All of this he had to meditate upon while his
mother was talking ; and the upshot was resolution
to hold his tongue, until he had further
spied out the land.

After all, it was not the handkerchief which
had led to her detection.

Had he been on the right trail by other means,
C. N. might have clinched the matter ; but until
the name of Miss Comline fell from Lady Olivia's

lips, he was not aware that he had suspected
anything.

It is probable, however, that one trifling incident
and another had prepared his mind for the
discovery. The farmer s reticence about Carnot
 the spurious likeness between the sisters
a dozen minor details,  had all led to the
same point; so that, when his mother's comment
on the unsuitability of the children's
governess for her position recalled to his mind
what he had thought on the same subject at the
Muirland Farm  what he had mentally observed
on worthy Mrs Comline's informing him of her
daughter's holding such a post,  he was ripe for
hearing, and the next moment brought conviction.
He did not suspect, he knew that he had
got hold of the truth.

For some time after she had done with Kate,
Lady Olivia prosed peacefully on, and she
thought her son remarkably patient and pleasant
that day.

He heard her out, which he did not often do.
He let her flit on from theme to theme, mash
up whole cartloads of exalted names, and work
upon such outer rind of the gossip of society as
she loved to peck at, sans interruption or yawns.

He did not appear to listen, but he picked a
blue tassel to pieces as if it interested him.

She felt all the glow of gratified maternity as
she looked across the rug, and saw him still
there at the end of two hours, when pretty
Alice came in to whisper her hope that brother
Eupert would not think it too great a plague to
be called upon to take the ride he had promised.

So soon *? " exclaimed Lady Olivia. But of
course the young lady, who looked resigned,
and said nothing, gained her point. Eupert
would have gone if Marjorie had asked him to
mount the dun cow ; but when to his readiness
to oblige was added his desire to escape, he
could spring to his feet with alacrity.

"You must really not tease your brother,
unless he likes to go," observed the fond parent,
in some displeasure : she made rather a point of
saying "your brother," since, albeit she would
have dearly liked to have kept her precious son
all to herself, and permitted the Newbattle faction
neither part nor lot in the matter, prudence
suggested so strongly the expediency of there
being no notion on either side of any tie of
another nature ever being formed, that "brother
" and " sisters," she felt, had best be established

from the beginning. She thought herself
sly and clever ; and to avoid confusion, since
the term was adopted universally, we shall use
it also.

He was to be '' Eupert " to them all, at once ;
and though Alice had tried to be shy and blushing,
and Marjorie to be mischievous, the arrangement
had been taken so much as a matter of
course by the good-natured young man himself,
that nothing more could be made of it.

*' But are you quite sure that he cares to ride
to-day '? " persisted Lady Olivia, one of whose
ways it was to imagine that her darling could
not possibly speak for himself " You should
not worry about a thing, Alice. It is for Eupert
to decide, not for you. He may prefer the boat,
or a drive with me, or a walk with your father."

Or a seat on an elephants back," added
Eupert. " There is every variety of entertainment,
isn't there, Alice ? Well, come along."

"You might have let him alone a little longer,"
proceeded Lady Olivia, with her eyes now
lovingly bent on the figure before her, now
reproachfully turned on the one at her side.
"You should not be so insisting, my dear; it
is not well-bred. We were very comfortable

together." " Poor dear ! " she murmured, as the
door closed behind the pair ; '' he is at the mercy
of every one of them : he gets no peace. I am
glad, however," reflectively, ," that he thinks
Alice is pretty. He is a good judge. What if
he saw Kate ! "

Alice," said her companion, as they dropped
their horses to a walk after a long canter by the
river's brink, ' don't you miss your sister Kate
very much ? I suppose you and she are all in
all to each other, eh '? "

"I am more than a year older, you know."

*' I know. Does that include a great deal ? "

'* And  and I don't think we are very much
alike in our ways, and  and tastes."

*' You are not alike in appearance,  at least,
to judge from photographs."

"Are we not? But we have only such a
very ancient photograph of Kate, that you would
never guess who it was meant for if you knew
her."

(Indeed he had not, or his mystery would
have been solved long before that morning.)

*' Some people think we are very like indeed,"
continued Alice. " Of course Kate is darker.
But they say that that is the only difference."

Oh."

We are not at all alike in other respects, 
at least not so much as most sisters are. But, of
course, I do miss dear Kate," she added, pathetically.


"The others are so much beneath you both'
observed Evelyn, " that I thought probably
you were great friends, and had everything in
common."

"But Kate seems nearer to them than she
does to me. She does not care for things that
grown-up people like. I really don't know what
is to be done with her when it comes to be
her turn to go into the world, for she cares
for nothing at present but burrowing in the
library for old books, and spouting poetry in
the dark ! "

Evelyn laughed.

*when we tell her not to be ridiculous,"
continued Alice, " she gets very indignant. It
is really ludicrous to see how she takes things
to heart; and you have to be so careful  of
course I would not say it to any one but you,
but she has such a shocking temper. Oh,
pray don't say that I told you. What made
me say it ? I am so provoked with myself.

It slipped out before I knew. I am so sorry
I told you."

'' No need," said her brother, drily ; " I had
heard all about it before. . My mother has
warned me of Kate's infirmity, and even the
young ones speak of it with awe. Why should
you be more reticent ? "

I was afraid you would think "

That it has been exaggerated. '? "

This was not the meaning of her pause ; she
had been afraid that he would think amiss of
her for adding her voice to that of the others ;
but she was too quick not to catch at the right
thing to say, and her ' yes " lay so ready on her
lips, that it was in use almost before she was
aware.

*' Yes, indeed. I am so afraid you will think
we all make too much of poor dear Kate's un 

un  unfortunate it is such a pity for her

own sake, you know. And of course we are
all as fond of her as ever we can be. You are
not to suppose she is not a dear good thing, 
and so generous, she gives away everything
she has : the children can get anything they
want out of Kate when she is in a good mind,
but "

'' But her good mind is sometimes absent on
leave."

Absent on leave ? " Alice stared a little.

I mean, she occasionally does not know
where to look for it. Marjorie seems fond of
her, however''

'' Oh, Marjorie. But Marjorie will run after
anybody who takes notice of her. Kate made
a fuss with the child, and she used to get all
Kate's nice things  her album, and her glove-boxes,
and anything she chose to take a fancy
to. Kate is quite silly in that way  she can
never keep anything for herself."

' I am sorry for Kate," said Evelyn, as if to
himself " She can t be very happy, I should
say."

No ; that is what we all tell her. Of course,
when papa married again "

 All right. Goon."

Naturally none of us liked it," continued
Alice, encouraged by his smile. " We had all
to  to make the best of things. But that was
just what Kate would not do. She frets herself
about every trifle, and even about the little
commonplace conventionalities of society,"
with an air caught from her stepmother.

"You know it is really ridiculous. She only
wants a pair of spectacles to be a regular old
maid."

I thought I understood that she only wanted
short frocks to be a regular baby''

I declare," said Alice, laughing, " I don't
know which it is. She provokes one both
ways."

"Does she mind much," said Evelyn, slowly,
being kept away at Miss Comline's ? "

Oh, you have been told about that ? Kate
was really in the right, to begin with. You
must not mind my saying so, for Miss Coiling
was extremely nice, and the children were so
fond of her, that we all "

Yes, I understand."

So now that she is there, at Miss Comline's
home, what more can she want 1 They can read
Schiller and Moliere all day long together, with
no one to interfere ; and Kate likes to be let
alone, and she likes Miss Comline."

You are rather confused, all the same," reflected
her brother. " You know very well it
is difficult to put a good face upon the matter.
And so Kate is at a farm ? " he said aloud.

Hardly a farm. It is a delightful, old-fashioned,

retired country-house. There is a
farmyard certainly, and  and "

(" Spare yourself the trouble of describing
it," said Evelyn, mentally. " I have seen the
place, and it is very much of a farm, I should
say. This girl grows amusing. I must lead
her on a little') "It is a country-house, is it?
A fine old castle, I daresay. She will have
shady avenues to roam about in, as well as the
correct haunted chamber wherein to spout her
poetry in the dark ? "

Nothing was denied, and every other supposition
he chose to make further, was likewise
assented to. '' Indeed, I am quite certain that
poor Kate is as happy with them as she would
be anywhere," was the conclusion of the subject
on her sister's part.

Evelyn's was different.

I shall go and see that poor girl at once. I
shall see what can be done towards putting her
in her proper place again, even though she has
cheated me out of more sympathy than was her
due, and even although it will close forthwith
my little romance. I quite believe she is a bit
of a vixen, but I like her none the less for that ;
and, vixen or not, it is a deuced shame to treat

her so badly. What a business it is when a lot
of women get together ! Nothing but mewing
and scratching,  especially behind backs. Men
don't do that sort of thing  they let each other
alone ; and a good thing they do, or there'd bethe
devil to pay."

Marjorie was the next to add her quota to
the information which now seemed to be poured
in upon Evelyn from all sides. She was running
about the garden when the riders returned,
and immediately set up her claim to
Brother Rupert : he had promised, it appeared,
to go and see her own little garden, and now he
had to fulfil the agreement, it not being so easy
at Carnochan, as at some places, to promise and
have done with the matter.

The flower - beds, through which the two
strolled, were still gay; and as Evelyn enjoyed
his afternoon pipe, he proposed to the
little one that she should gather a bouquet, but
was met by a look of delighted astonishment
which was incomprehensible.

"Well," he said, why not?"

"Oh, if you tell me to do it, nobody can
scold me," replied the child, joyfully; "but
remember, Brother Rupert, that you told

me; because if . not, mamma"  she was the
only one who said " mamma "  " oh, she
would be as angry with me as she was with
Kate."

'' Why was she angry with Kate ? "
It was on that tree there was a rose," said
Marjorie, solemnly, "and mamma said nobody
was to touch it, because she wanted the rose
all for herself ; and when Kate heard it, she was
in such a passion  oh, she was in a passion !
and she went and picked the rose that very
minute, and came down to dinner with it in her
frock ! Wasn't it naughty '? "
She received no answer.

"Oh, I say, Brother Rupert, you're smiling ! "

"Smiling? Nonsense, Marjorie! I could

not have been smiling. You could not see

my face behind the smoke, and so you made

a mistake."

I thought you were smiling," said Maidie,
nestling her hand into his,  she had pretty
little ways that took with people wonderfully.
' I thought you were smiling at what Kate did.
But when mamma was angry, Kate told her
that it was our garden, and our flowers, and that
we had a great deal more right to them than

VOL. I. L

anybody else had. Kate really and truly did
say that, Brother Eupert."

Did she indeed, Madge  really and truly ? "

'' Oh, but we are going past the beds, and
you said I might get some flowers ? "

Aren't there some out of sight of the house
which you may gather quietly, and nobody bethe
wiser ? " suggested Evelyn, not inclined to
disappoint the child, but willing also to avoid
getting into trouble. " If Lady Olivia objects to
your gathering the flowers, it would be better to
keep it dark, eh ? Come along, and let us find
a snug corner where we shan't be seen, and
may get as many as we please. As Kate says,
they are your own, and it is hard to put a
stopper on your having them. We'll take 'em
on the sly, that's all."

'' I wouldn't touch one if I were to take it on
the sly," retorted Marjorie, putting her hands
behind her. " Oh, you naughty boy ! Kate
would be angry if she heard you. She never
took a single thing that mamma did not know
of; and she would not let us, neither. Alice
does : Alice takes them up to her room."

'well, well," replied her brother, somewhat
disconcerted in spite of himself. " We won't

disobey this all - powerful Kate, then. She
seems to have some good points  eh, Madgey ?
She has taught you to be all fair and aboveboard,
anyway."

"I wish Kate was here," replied Marjorie,
thoughtfully. " She will never see you at all
if she does not come soon."

I don't suppose she cares about that."

She does care ; and I'll tell you how I know.
She was so fond of Uncle George  Uncle
George that died a little while ago,  and when
she saw your picture unpacked, and hung up
in the drawing-room  you know where  I saw
her go and look at it for ever so long, and
then she said to herself, ' It is just like Uncle
George'"

Perhaps if she saw me instead of the picture
though, she would find she had made a mistake,
and that would be a pity. I daresay I myself
am not like Uncle George at all, eh 'i "

But you are," persisted the little chatterer ;
you are just nice, and funny, and good-natured
like him ; and you make things for us the way he
used to do. And besides, you have got a moustache.
Before Kate went away, she told me
that the only thing she cared about was leaving

me behind, and that she would not see
you."

Did Kate  ah  cry when she went away ? "

* Oh no, she did not care a hit."

'Tm sure she did care' said Evelyn, and
stopped short, feeling foolish.

Well, I don't believe she did, for she would
not say * good-bye ' to papa, or any one ; and she
never came near the schoolroom. Mademoiselle
was asleep, but we would have wakened her up.
I say, can you kiss the wall backwards 1 " inquired
Maidie, suddenly.

"Not that I know of. I daresay I could if
I tried, though."

' Well, Miss Comline couldn't ; and neither
can Mademoiselle, nor Alice, nor any one of us,
but just Kate. She stands with her back to
the wall, a little way off it, so"  suiting the
action to the word,  " and bends down her back,
down, down, down, till her nose rubs it first 
and that's all Alice can do ; but Kate goes
downer, oh, ever so much downer than Alice,
and at last she gets lier mouth quite close up,
and kisses it. And then we, that's Bertha and
me, clap our hands."

How on earth did you say she does it ? "

inquired Evelyn, turning round, and trying
himself. " Eh !  woa ! Stop !  I can't get
down at all. Now look out, we'll try again.
Keep away from me, Madge ; don't touch me 
look out  don't come near me  there  by Jove,

1 can go any lower "

Oh, you're not near it at all," screeched

Marjorie, in ecstasies. " And you mustn't poke
out your knees like that ! That's not the way
Kate does at all. She just goes down, down,
down "

It's all very fine to say ' down, down,
down,'that won't make youo down ! Kate
must be made of india-rubber. Well, there's no
use trying, for mortal man can't do it, though
woman may. Come along, you little piece of
mischief,  how dare you presume to make game
of your betters ? I shan't come near you again
for ever so long, if you behave like that."

Oh, if you only saw Kate do it ! "

And I'll be hanged if I don't see Kate do it,,
and that before many days are over."

Such was Evelyn's final resolution,  although,
as may be imagined, he kept it to himself.

NAUGHTY KATE.

An lessened girl, unschooled, unpractised,
Happy in this, she is not yet so old Int she may learn. "

Merchant of Venice.

One absurd perplexity detained our hero a
whole day from accomplishing his purpose  he
could not, by any possibility, now get the soiled
handkerchief washed : he did not like taking it
as it was ; and he durst not leave it behind.

At length he laughed at himself, and concluded
to trust to the good offices of the farmer's
wife. That point settled, he announced the next
morning at breakfast that he proposed taking a
short fishing-run to the western shores of Galloway,
and that, if he could have a dog-cart to
take him a dozen miles or so, he should start
that day. Of course he could have the dogcart

; and how about his letters ? If Lady
Olivia could not fidget about her own letters,
she longed to do so about those of other people.
In this instance the disappointment of not being
permitted to forward any was only mitigated
by the pledge of a speedy return which such a
restriction seemed to give. Rupert could not
certainly intend to be long away from his letters,
however much he might be tempted to give her
and Carnochan the slip ; and accordingly, he
was allowed to depart in peace, and without
more parade and commotion than he must have
known beforehand to be inevitable.

How he did wish his mother would sometimes
let him alone ! Bustle and attentions, such as
Lady Olivia delighted in, were revolting to her
son. He hated being interrogated ; he could
not endure being stood aside for, and run about
for, and arranged for. Being tied down to do
this and that at a fixed date, and in a fixed
placed, was abomination : if he were forced to
name beforehand a day or an hour to be set
aside for a set purpose, the very fact of his
having done so would then and there awake in
his bosom a raging desire to cheat the appointed
time of its prey ; and directly he felt bound to

go through with a matter, however much it
might coincide with his inclinations, he yearned
to throw it up.

This last was the feebler side of Evelyn's
nature ; and it was perfectly in accordance with
such weakness that he should primarily have
been so all-engrossed with the recollection of
the lovely stranger, whom he had fallen in
with under circumstances so romantic,  that
he should, when those circumstances faded into
the background, feel his interest cool and
diminish,  and that directly the thought of
restoring the bandage began to assume the
shape of a promise unfulfilled, he should recur
to it but seldom.

Fortune and Lady Olivia had very nearly
succeeded in spoiling one in whom there yet
lay latent germs of rare and beautiful excellences,
and whom the chill of neglect or the
furnace of adversity might have developed into
a hero.

Every generous feeling was now stirred up on
Kate's behalf.

To be sure, she was no longer a charming
mystery ; he could not again set her before his
imagination as a beauteous unknown creature,

to be thought about and dreamed about.
Such a vision had been somewhat rudely dispelled,
and his self-complacency had experienced
a shock in consequence. He felt that he had
made rather a fool of himself.

But none the less was he ready with his indignation
when he thought of the motherless
girl, who had been unable to accept a buffet
of fate, and who had, in consequence, been so
hardly dealt with. Her father and sisters, how
could they stand by and see it done ?

' Handed over to the secular arm"* he reflected.
"It was a good stroke of business
that. The arch heretic put down with a high
hand, it appears all her fellow-offenders at once
tendered their submission. My lady may congratulate
herself."

It is possible that had the injured one been
a meek, plain-featured saint, uncomplainingly
bearing her burden on unsymmetrically-moulded
shoulders, indignation might have been enough ;
he would still have urged that the discipline
was over-severe, he would still have experienced
on her behoof resentment and righteous
wrath, but I doubt if he would have set out for
the Farm.

It was the thought of that proud, suffering,
defiant nature, eating its heart out among those
lonely wilds,  of that fretted lip and angry eye
of all the charms that he had seen, or fancied
he had seen, in the old farmhouse,  that awoke
in his breast a mixture of admiration, pity,
curiosity, he knew not what  but above and
beyond all, a determination to see and hear
Kate Newbattle asrain.

Little Maidie's shocked and virtuous
' Wasn't it naughty of Kate ? " recurred again
and again to his memory as he drove along.
He quite agreed with the child ; naughty, undeniably
naughty it was. Somehow he liked to
think how naughty, and to reflect upon what
colour the glowing cheeks must have worn, and
upon what words the guilty lips must have let
loose, in the scene that had been so fast imprinted
on the little sister's memory. Pretty
bad the whole must have been,  he wished he
had seen it.

Yes ; he, Evelyn, who always knew by instinct
when there was anything unfriendly
and disagreeable going on, and kept out of it
as he would have avoided the plague, now
actually found himself wishing he had been by

when two feminine combatants opposed each.
other.

It was all my mother's fault, of course," Le
told himself. " No woman of sense would have
made such an outrageous prohibition. As if
there were not flowers enough for any number of
people in the garden, and as if she could not have
let a trifle like that alone, rather than add it to
the vexations the girls were already undergoing!"

By-and-by, however, he found himself having
his fling at the girls too.

They might have managed better. His
mother, though absurd and tiresome, was not
wantonly ill-natured ; they might  at least
Kate might, for apparently Alice did  have
given into her, humoured her. Humouring, 
that was all Lady Olivia needed. Would they
but show her a little surface-attention, avoid
clashing with any of her preconceived notions,
and put up with her nonsense, they might all
have got along together tolerably enough. If
he had met the young ladies beforehand, he
could have offered one piece of invaluable advice,
which, had they acted upon it, might have
prevented all this scandal and rupture. He
would simply have said, " Keep out of her way."

Well, it was not too late to drop a hint 
such an admonition might yet be useful for
the future.

And now he came to think of it, he must
really take Miss Kate to task, since it was certainly
the duty of everybody to be accommodating,
cheerful, pleasant,  and since it was
equally certain that Miss Kate Newbattle had
not seen her duty in this respect, or had lamentably
neglected it.

He never made a fuss over things himself.
When things went cross with him, as of course
they did sometimes,  he paused to consider, but
could not at the moment refresh his memory
with instances,  it was no matter, things went
cross occasionally with every fellow, so of course
they did with him too,  but he did not go
about making himself disagreeable. He held
his tongue, and the matter righted itself again ;
that was the way to do. Matters always do
right themselves, if people have the sense to be
quiet, and keep their tempers.

That was the point, though. Some people
could not keep their confounded tempers in
order. He must confess he did hate bad-tempered
people. A fellow with a bad temper was

like that  what was its name ?  that eioht-
legged thing in the aquarium,  you never knew
what he would fasten on next ! Made the fellow
a nuisance. Obliged one to keep out of the
fellow's way.

It did not occur to our philosopher that the
obligation in the present instance had not been
imperative : instead of keeping out of the way
of this naughty Kate, of whom the first thing
that everybody said of her was that she had " a
temper," as he thus ruminated, every mile brought
him nearer to her.

Kate's heart had been very sore since Evelyn's
visit. Not that she had fallen in love with him 
for she knew from the first, or almost from the
first, who he was,  but she had liked him, as she
had fancied she would ; she had found him nice,
kind, and handsome,  all, in short, that she had
been taught to expect ; and his coming upon her
whilst she was undergoing her sentence of humiliation
and punishment, had stung her to the
quick. Here was the brother of whom so much
had been said and thought ; whose looks, talents,
tastes, and virtues Lady Olivia had never been
weary of vaunting; and whose approach had,
through her means, come to be regarded by the

expectant household as an event of first-rate importance.
Everything was to be got in order before
Captain Evelyn, came. His name had been
used as a spur, a reward, and an incentive ; and
in every capacity it had not failed of success.

That he should stumble thus upon her poor
disgraced self at the outset !

She would rather it had been any one else,
even Mrs Popham, who, up to this time, had
been the person chiefly dreaded. Mrs Popham
would, she knew, have been only half angry
with her, and would have been very angry
indeed with Lady Olivia,  but she would inevitably
have counselled submission, and submission
was just the one thing the rebel was
resolved against.

But no visitor could have been so unwelcome
as the one to whom she had herself held out her
hand.

She would not say altogether why, even to
herself  would not acknowledge all that was
meant by the vexation, which surpassed what
was intelligible to Miss Comline and her parents.
But it was so, that there had existed, in the
heart of the lonely girl, a sort of dim, fanciful
hope, connected with this brother who was com-vol.

I. M

ing. On him had been bestowed some of the
foolish day-dreams of a keenly affectionate and
isolated nature ; and the half-real, half-imaginary
resemblance to a lost and much-loved relation,
had been magnified and dwelt upon until it had
become invested with a value whose extent she
durst hardly own even to herself.

That he was the son of her enemy she was too
noble to regard. She had yearned to behold
Rupert Evelyn ; anxious to fill up her shadowy
outline, if possible,  but if that could not be
done, to scatter it to the winds. She had allowed
herself to bask in a certain sunshine of anticipation
concerning him, to wonder whether any one
might ever again be to her what her Uncle
George had been  might put up with her follies,
take her part, and draw her to his side. Could
it be that in her new brother she might find
such another friend ? The never-uttered thought
made her tremble.

'' It is not that he is so very much older," Lady
Olivia had repeatedly observed, " but my son has
seen so much of the world, has had so much experience,
that the girls must really remember he
will expect to be treated with some respect. The
little ones had better call him 'Brother Rupert

and even Alice and Kate must not look upon
him quite as though he were a contemporary."

Accordingly, they had all learned to shake in
their shoes ; and there had been nothing to dissipate
Kate's ideal but the sight of himself.

Had that done so "?

We shall see.

All the day after his departure, she followed
him with her thoughts. As night drew on,
she pictured the arrival at Carnochan, the stir
of the assembled household, the joyous welcome
from one and another, the circle formed,
the outcast forgotten. Tears burst from her
eyes again and again as fancy conjured up the
scene ; but she wiped them from her cheeks as
fast as they fell, and stamped down the whispers
of regret and longing which strove to make themselves
heard above the tumult within. No place
would she yield to such cowardly desires. Eight
was on her side ; and would she avow herself to
blame  tell a lie, cringe to power, and be subject
to tyranny henceforth, all for this? Because
she was too weak to resist  because her
prison was intolerable ?

No, indeed. She would hold out to the end,
and defy them all. For very shame they could

not keep her away much longer ; whatever Lady
OHvia might wish, her father would never consent
to any serious extension of her banishment,
and she would go home, when sent for, with un-crushed
spirit and unabated resolution.

Mean, selfish, and treacherous as her stepmother
might be, (Kate exaggerated, but that
we all do in the heat of passion), she told herself
that she would brave it all, and a day of
reckoning would surely come at last, to show
which of the two had been sinned against.

But oh, why had Captain Evelyn passed that
way '?

Why must needs the stranger, whom sheer
necessity had driven her to succour, turn out to
be Lady Olivia's matchless son ?

Was it not enough that she was miserable,
cast out of doors, and impotent in her rage and
grief, but that he must know it, and be a witness
of it?

It did not occur to her that, for their own
reasons, her secret might be kept by those he was
now among. She was not sophisticated enough
to suspect that as little of the matter as might
be would transpire,  that experienced hands
would slur all such family dissensions over.

She fancied that it was to them the all-absorbing
topic that it was to her ; that it still held its
place of paramount interest, to the exclusion of
pleasant themes ; and that it was impossible
but that, before Evelyn had been many hours
domesticated, he would have heard from one and
all their version of her misconduct.

It might have been a relief, but it would also
have been a stinmnof mortification and a new
misery, had she known that at the end of a fortnight
not a word had been said but that simple
*' Kate is away on a visit, as it happens," which
had accounted for her absence on the first night.

Her name had been obliterated without an
effort.

They were all enjoying themselves very well
at Carnochan,  getting on better, in fact, than
they had ever done before  making things
pleasant for their guests, and, above all, for the
guest, whom all united in their desire to honour ;
while, during those same dusky October days
she was chafing her already festering wounds by
inventing incidents not one of which ever took
place, and coining phrases and sentiments of
which nobody felt the need.

What one would say, and what another would

think,  this was all in all to the poor solitary
child, until at length such ceaseless brooding
over the one subject told upon her health and
looks, and made her kind governess, as well as
the old people, uneasy.

Lizzie Comline, of whom hitherto nothing has
been said, may be presented to our readers ina
few words. She was sensible, plodding, tolerably
clever, and not without ambition. Being
the only child of parents in easy circumstances,
and having had every advantage from her earliest
years, it had been comparatively a simple matter
for her to rise in the social scale ; and whatever
Lady Olivia might choose to say, she was neither
vulgar nor ill-bred. Her manner was retiring,
her voice sweet, and her movements gentle ;
but  and it was on this "but" that all the
epithets bestowed on the unfortunate governess
hung  she had an undeniable Galloway
accent.

It is true that, in the colloquial intercourse at
the farm, the dialect of the two younger people
more nearly assimilated than did that of Lizzie
Comline to her homely parents; that she had been
so far lifted by an excellent education, and by
consorting with superior people, out of the sphere

into which she had been born, as to seem in
their eyes a being worthy of any station, and
fitted for any position. But there was some
show of reason for the condemnatory clause in
Lady Olivia's note  a note which, by the way,
had been so grievous to the poor disenchanted
parents, that, as soon as they found the light in
which it was regarded by the second Miss Newcastle,
they could not open their doors wide
enough to receive so keen a partisan.

Lady Olivia had declared that Kate should
not stay at home to breed mischief. Farmer
Comline had stood stoutly forth, and vowed she
should go back with him.

Such an arrangement suited everybody ; and
for the first week or so, in the flush of her
wrath, and in the novelty of the new life, the
recusant had been well enough satisfied.

Ere long, however, she had pined ; how could
she help it ?

She had been brought up differently. The
very conventionalities, and manifold pomps and
ceremonies, at which she had been wont to rail,
were now felt the loss of. Since she could read
all day long without interruption, her brain
wearied ; now that she had no longer her pony.

she wanted to ride ; and Lizzie Comline, who
had ere while been pronounced to be the first
and best of human beings, the most learned of
instructresses, the choicest of companions, was
found  oh, how ashamed poor Kate was to own
it  to pall upon her taste.

Naturally, she did not understand that, after
such fiery sensations as had wrung her tender
youthful frame during the past six months, her
palate was spoilt ; almost any one and anything
must seem insipid.

She was beginning to droop ere Evelyn
came. His visit wrought a new fever; and
more than ever, though from altered motives,
she beat against her prison bars after he had
left, roaming about by herself, in terror lest
her looks should betray to the kind folks who
had harboured her the ungrateful, traitorous
desire to leave them which anew consumed
her, and more silent than ever when in their
company, lest some careless word or expression
might slip out, and show the direction towards
which every thought tended.

That Evelyn would return, was the last thing
she expected.

The days came and went as drearily as they

had done before ; and on the brilliant autumnal
afternoon on which he again cast eyes upon the
Muirland Farm, she was mooning among the
rocks down on the shore, dreaming of nothing
less than of such a visitor.

Sending back the last gig and driver he had
hired, when the village two miles east of the
farm was reached, Evelyn deposited his portmanteau
and fishing gear in safe quarters, to
wait till called for, and walked up to see his
friends, unceremoniously. If they asked him
to remain, well and good ; if not, he had the
little inn to fall back upon.

On coming in sight of his destination about
five o'clock, it seemed scarcely credible that it
was the same abode whose forlorn and desolate
appearance had struck him so forcibly on first
beholding it.

On its rocky promontory,  bathed in a flood
of light from the setting sun, whose gorgeous
rays blazed over a sweep of glittering, waveless
ocean,  supported on the huge boulders beneath,
against which not a ripple broke,  the
ancient farmhouse seemed no longer pitilessly
exposed, bleak, and storm-beaten ; it was rather
a beauteous tranquil spot, far from the noise

and fury of the madding crowd, a haven of
refuge, a peaceful anchorage for the weary and
passion-tossed.

He stood still to view the scene.

Behind lay the waste of moorland road whose
unending turns and windings had baffled him
so cruelly ; beyond, and stretching away to the
north, was the mountain-range by whose heights
he had steered during his hours on the stream ;
and beneath the bank, he could now plainly
perceive the wretched hovel wherein he had
first sought shelter.

Transfigured like all beside, it was now a picturesque
point in the landscape ; its blue smoke,
curling gently upwards in a spiral wreath,
pleased the eye, and its heather-thatched roof
shone ruddy in the sunlight.

Although but a brief fortnight had passed,
so often in the interval had Evelyn's thoughts
recurred to the spot, that every object had a
curious historical charm, as though he were
revisiting some hallowed scene after prolonged
absence. He caught himself saying, "It was
just here," and " It was just there," of the
veriest trifles ; and as he laid hold of the gate,
the opening of which had afforded him the

opportunity for his second inspection of his fair
guide, he found himself quite soft on the subject.
He really wished she had not been only Kate.

'' Hey, Captain I ye're for back again already '?"
cried a voice at his side, as a head and two huge
shoulders slowly rose to view on the other side
of the stone wall at his side. " That's right.
I thocht ye wad come  I thocht ye wad come.
The wife said 'Na.' Mickle she kenned! Stop
a wee, an Til come d'ye," clambering cautiously
over. " Here's another sort o' night frae
yon, she'll say. Lord, it's grand father, an it'll
baud another ten days or sae ! And ye ken a'
about us by this time, I'm thinking," he added,
with a chuckle. " And what for or young
teddy was sae thrawn d'ye, and wadna hae her
name let on, nor nathan' ? Eh, it's a pity, sae
young and bonnie ! But come in, come in ;
ye're welcome to the Muirland Farm. And
ye're come to stay. Captain 1 "

"If I may hope that your good wife will put
me up for a night, as she did before "

"For a night '? Nae mair nor a night?" in
accents of heartfelt disappointment.

Oh, if it comes to that " said Evelyn,

laughing ; and soon all was arranged. A boy

was despatched for his luggage, and he had
nothing further to think about.

'abide a bit though' cried the farmer, as
they were about to enter the house ; " see
round this way a meenut, Captain. The gude-wife's
no' set her ere on us, or she'd ha' been
foot to bid ye welcome ; sae we'll step ayant 
just ben the yard here, and ye'll see or Charlie.
Eh, he's a bonnie ane ! The morn's morn he's
wa' for Falkirk  for the Tryst, ye ken. Noo
then, sir," pointing to an aperture in the wall
from which Chairlie, a fine black bull of the
purest Galloway breed, was looking calmly
out. '' See to him, then  see to him," continued
Mr Comline, with joyous pride,  "see
to him, sir ; eh, Captain ? Ista he o' the
right sort  eh, Captain, eh '? See to his
heed ; see to his bonnie birsey brow ; see to
his wee bits o' lugs ! No' a spot upon him frae
neck to heel. Lost, I wish ye could see him
a'thegither ! but we're no' cabin' to fash Chairlie,
we cinna gang in "

'pray don't, then, on my account."

There's no' a bull in Gallowa that'll beat or
Chairlie, Captain."

So I should imagine."

With SO painstaking a guide, it was easy to
admire, and so confident an assertion wanted
nothing but an assent ; but Evelyn's assent was
given with a warmth that could not fail to
please, and his ardent acquiescence in his companion's
praises left no room for suspicions as
to his discretion. It seemed as if he were
scarcely les's unwilling to quit the subject or
the spot than was honest Comline himself
At length, however, they moved a pace or
two.

Now don't let me take you in," said Evelyn,
turning resolutely towards the house. " I know
I shall find Mrs Comline about the doors ; and

it is really a shame " feeling that he would

as soon make his way inside alone.

"Ay, ay, she's about," replied the farmer,
disregarding the latter portion of the sentence,
but that's no' to say she's coin' a' the work, as
was the way when ye cam' or road last time, 
na, na ; Lizzie brocht us a lass what's coin' fine,
an' the mistress may sit in her chair noo, I'm
tellin' her. An' we'll mak' nae peyvee about
ye, Captain ; ye'll tak' us as we are, as ye did
syne. Averse aye the same  aye the same. The
laird himsel' whiles comes to us i' the wintertime,

when the Castle's shut up, an' he's down
for a week's shooting', for the woodcock an' the
heather-fleet. D ye see yon flows down by ?
Thon's the place for faith the twa. Photo ! I
hae seen woodcock there when they wasna to
be fund or heard o' in ony other moss for miles
round. There's another up ayant that's no that
bad neither. But ye're for indoors ? I'm com in'

wi' ye "

"No, don't."

'' Hoots ! what for no ? " replied Mr Comline,
stoutly. " My work's done : an' 'deed there's
little work on hand the noo ; we're just putting'
things straight here an' there i' the backed.
It's a gude time o' the year to tak' for bits o'
odd jobs that a body lets pass other whiles ; but
it'll no' do to leave over muckle to it neither, as
I was tellin' the lads the noo. They're afi* for
the day, and I was on the road hame myself'
when I fell in wi' you, Captain. An' hoo area'
the family at Carnochan ? " with an evident
efibrt at politeness. *' They wad be sweet to let
ye wa', I'm thinking." Then in a lower key,
and glancing round in fear of being overheard,
'' They're a proud thrawn pack that's there,
tho' the wife manna hear me saying' it."

Evelyn laughed heartily.

*ray, ay," continued the farmer, in high
good-humour, '* that's what they are. They're
no o' your sort, sir  no ane among them. Tm
wae for that bit young thing that's here, a' the
same  that I am. It wasna for her ain folks to
cast her frae them, be she what she might ; an'
gude sakes, for being a wee thing mettlesome !
She might hae kicked the byre to pieces afore I
wad hae spurned sae bonny a heifer I "

Do you think," said Evelyn, lingering, and
still looking restlessly round, as he had not
ceased to do since entering the farm precincts,
"do you think that she will be glad to
see me "? "

Glad here, glad there, she's glad at nathan'.
Maybe she'll speak d'ye, maybe she'll no. But
I wad tak' nae heed, Captain, but gang your
ain gait, and e'en let her be. She kenned what
ye were a' the time,  and see what cam' o't ?
There's nae saying' hoo she'll tak' your coming'
back, she's been that thowless this bygone week,

are ye to tell her a' ye ken ? " he broke off,

abruptly.

Certainly, I have no excuse for reappearing
otherwise  except this,"  pulling out the handkerchief,

which had now grown to be an incubus.
" Here it is, you see ; and you will
understand why it comes so. Perhaps your
wife will kindly put it right before Miss New-battle
receives it. To tell you the truth, it was
hearing how badly your daughter, and my  hum
ah  sister  had been treated at Carnochan,
that brought me here. I  I  came to see if I
could  could in any way help them."

'' Ye did that ? " said Mr Comline, stopping
short, and digging his stick into the ground.
Ye did that ? Then, sir, you are the gentleman
I took ye for frae the offset ! I thocht
I could be mistaken. Lord, I am proud !
Weel, it's a sir story, an' they'll no' thole
to hear it mentioned down by," looking at the
house ; " but sae it stan's,  she was chuckle wa'
like a bag o' chaff ! They had her for a year
an mair, an' aye they were pleased, and she
was weel content ; an' a' in a gliiF cam' word
frae her Ladyship, your mither, to bid her bide
whaup she was  here at the farm, d'ye see ?  anno'
e'en to gang back to pit her bits o' duds
thither ! I went myself' to fetch them  ay, I
did. I'd no' hae my ae bairn gang whaup she
was lichtlied, ony mair than my Teddy wad hers.

a handle less, maybe. Weel, sir, to Carnochan
I went  ye mind I teller ye I had been there, 
an' what did I find ? A' the place in a lowe !
Ane wi' her tale, and thither wi' hers ; an' the
end o't was that I was free to tak' Miss Kate
here gin I would, for I had up and said she
should gang wi' me an she chose  an' sae here
she is. But it's a pair sorrowful' face I aye see
for my pains ; she just whyripes a' the day lang :
an' troth, Captain, though name can cast it upto
me that my mind misgives me for that day's
work, I wad be blythe, for a' or sakes, to see
your sister mair couth."

*' Where is she now 'i "

What kens '? Up among the laughs, mast
like. Whiles she'll sit on a stane, down by the
tide there, for a' the world like a heron ; and
'deed she's nae fatter than the craig o' a heron
at the dark o' the moon  when they canna see
to fin' their meat, ye ken. Whimsies ? She's
fu' o' whimsies ; she doesna ken ae minute
what she'll do the nest, she's that restless and
pingin. But I'm wae for her, that I am, pair
thing I "

But where is she ? " thought Evelyn, impatiently.
" Here we have been hanging about

VOL. I. . N

the doors this half-hour, and  and  somehow I
wish I could see her, and be done with it."

The next moment he heard a light step
behind.

The farmer had preceded him into the house,
and he made a halt unobserved.

Up she came.

Their eyes met, and he had taken her hand
ere she had time for more than amazement.
She could only stand still, gasp for breath, and
flush all over.

I have come back," said Evelyn, '' on purpose
to see you, Kate."

Chapter X.

A MERRY EVENING AT THE Maitland FARM.

'* Mirth, admit nie of thy crew,

To live With her, and live with thee,
In unreproved pleasures free."

L Allegro.

No noisy neighbours enter here,
No intermeddling stranger near."

Cotton.

He could not have done better. The next
moment brought out his rejoicing hostess, escorted
by her no less jubilant spouse; and he
had to listen, and laugh, and edge in a word as
best he might for another ten minutes, during
which time Miss Newbattle stood by silent
and bewildered, but certainly without any displeasure
being manifested on her downcast
countenance.

"And here's Lizzie," cried the farmer next,
producing the quiet, unremarkable-looking young

woman about whom so much stir had been
made, and whom  although he could not have
told why, had he been asked  Evelyn now regarded
with especial favour. Surely it would
have been more natural that he should have
viewed Miss Comline, if not with ill-will as the
bone of contention, the apple of discord, the
person who had wrought mischief which he
was there for the express purpose of remedying,
at least with neutral eyes. It was certainly
odd that he should shake her so heartily by the
hand, and say to himself, "What a sensible,
nice-looking, unaffected girl!"

The fact was, he was overflowing with good-humour
and spirits, charmed with himself for
having given pleasure, which in turn was affording
him varied and delightful anticipations ;
and the innocent governess, who by strict rule
could hardly be charged either with the authorship
of Kate's dolor or Evelyn's enjoyment, was
the object of the latter's unreasoning gratitude.
She had brought about the situation, and he
did not care how she had done it.

He had not been mistaken in calculating on
the reception he should meet with from any one
of the party, since the fact that his dark-eyed

sister stood by, instead of slipping past within
doors, was as much as he cared for at present ;
and as to the other three, it was plain that not
only was what he had done taken in good part,
but that nothing else would have afforded the
worthy people equal satisfaction.

Here was the son, the only son, of the proud,
painted Jezebel  (poor Lady Olivia! she only
used a little pearl-powder and rouge occasionally)
 here he was, on the side of the oppressed.
Here was an ambassador extraordinary  a mediator
unparalleled. My lady herself, suing for
pardon at their door, could not have soothed
their wounded pride more entirely.

It did not just then occur to any one to imagine
that their champion had deserted, as it
were, unbeknown to the opposing powers ; nor
did it occur to him to suppose that they would
think he had done anything else. Nothing was
said on a subject which could very well wait 
which had better, indeed, be kept for a quieter
season ; and as long as the party was complete,
it was felt, by one and all alike, that genial and
ordinary topics could alone be introduced. At
supper-time the chances of good sport on the
burn, which was within half a mile, were discussed.

Evelyn had inspected the water, and
had found it low. This had been the only
drawback to his good fortune ; but he was too
much of a sportsman to complain, especially asa
good nights rain would, he knew, pull up the
stream to its proper pitch, and all would be right.

And I'm dinged if we hanna rain 'ore mony
hours are gave by," quoth the farmer ; ' there's
a brush about the moon the night that we
hanna seen this while back, and that betokens
an offa' o' rain at this time o' the year. Hark !
it's griffin already ! The Captain is in the
nick o' time, an it come na a spate ; but o' that,
nae man can prophesy."

' A spate '? " said Evelyn.

'' A rush o' water frae the hills  a flood, sir,
a flood. Vain's what we want  that's to say,
what you want ; for it wad be no' that welcome
to me. I could stan' it, but I'm no cabin' for it ;
out neither the ta'en nor the thither o' us wants
to be drowned."

'the burn is close at hand," said Evelyn,
looking across the table, and pointedly addressing
Miss Newbattle ; " is it too rough-walking
on the moor for you to come with me tomorrow,
provided the water is in trim '? "

The silence and expectant looks of the other
three made him repent, the moment he had put
the question. It was evidently their custom tolet
the young lady alone, and he thought he
could perceive some anxiety lest he should have
done the wrong thing in making his suggestion.

She herself was evidently taken by surprise,
and hesitated, looking at him as though uncertain
what reply to make to a request so unusual.

''Noo then, Missy," said the farmer, encouragingly,
" the Captain wants your company.
Poohoo, Captain ! she minds nathan o' rough
walking  and it's no' that rough, neither. It's
just a wheen bogs  sat to the feet; and there's
a dyke or twa, but them she'll easy wun over ;
and there's a bit path, a sheep track, a mile or
sae up, that'll gie ye a lift on. Oo ay. Missy
can gang brawly."

"It'll do her gude," added his wife.

Say you'll go, dear," whispered Lizzie.

Evelyn wished anew he had not spoken.

"Why, Kate," he said, gaily, though inwardly
vexed with himself for being the cause
of her confusion, " you must not make a stranger
of me. Alice and I have been riding together
nearly every day of late ; and the little

ones are allowed to go with me in the boat
when they have been on their best behaviour.
They have all made friends. I want to get to
know you, now. If we have good luck, we
shall have a jolly day ; and if we can't catch
trout, we can hunt for blackberries''

Blackberries '? I coot we hanna that fruit
in these parts," said Mrs Comline, thoughtfully.
*' There's a wheen blackberries, but they're on
in August ; an' there's cranberries, but they're
over by this time tae. There's nathan' but the
brambles "

Brambles ; that's it. I saw lots when I

was here last, and they can't be quite over. We
call the branches brambles "

An' we ca' them possess. There's

possess o' shuns, and possess o' brambles, and
the like."

And the berries, blackberries," Evelyn

proceeded, bent on accomplishing his purpose,
now that he had once mooted it ; " and if Kate
will only show me whereabouts to look for them,
I'll engage we fill the creel one way or other."

He caught a low 'every well," and was satisfied.

Nothing could exceed the cheerfulness and
good-humour which prevailed in the homely

party. It seemed characteristic of the place
and its inhabitants ; and although it is probable
that the flow of spirits which made every smile
infectious, emanated in the first instance from
the guest himself, he was so far from being conscious
that such was the case, that it seemed to
him as though it were he who was exhilarated
and inspirited by their geniality.

He had not felt so merry, he did not know
when.

The quaint old-fashioned parlour was quickly
set in order as soon as the meal was ended ;
fresh logs were piled on the fire, and a supply
laid down within the fender, that all the dewy
damp might be extracted ere they were wanted ;
a handsome collie stretched himself at full
length on the warm rug in front of the hearth ;
the farmer pulled round his chair, and Mrs
Comline brought forth her spinning-wheel

"I see another wheel," said Evelyn. remiss
Comline, unless you very much want to knit,
do let us have a second hum like that your
mother is making now ; it is a delightful sound,
and ought to be doubled."

"But Kate has learned to spin," replied
Lizzie, "and she has picked it up so quickly.

that my mother is quite proud of her pupil.
Do get out your wheel, Kate, and set to work,
you idle girl."

The very thing," thought Evelyn. *' I wanted
to set the other two going, so as to clear the
coast for operations  to have my young friend
on my hands ; but this is far better. She must
and shall speak to me now." He brought forward
the wheel, without inquiring whether he
was to do so or not ; and the awkward blow
on the elbow which, in consequence of handling
anything so strange, he bestowed on the fair
spinner before whom he was hastening to place
it, produced a laugh which was a good enough
beginning for anything to follow.

He saw that she was not vexed, only shy, and
still suffering from embarrassment. That, he
would essay to conquer,  and he rather liked
the office.

Accordingly, he must have not only the
mechanism of the wheel, but the intricacies
of the craft explained.

Next, he would try himself: spinning was a
very simple matter ; it was only just holding
long white rolls of wool in one hand, and a thin
wisp of thread in the other, and the thing was

done. It was all very fine to call it spinning ;
the two ends flew round and round, and spun
themselves I He was sure he could do it.

'' Let him try, Miss Kate," nodded the old
dame, peering over her spectacles, and stopping
her own whirring machinery to listen. " Best
let him tak' your seat, and try for himsel'. Sit
ye down in her chair. Captain ; an' gie him a
gude lang thread, Missy."

But the longest thread was, as all spinners
will imagine, inadequate.

Evelyn really gave his attention to the business
in hand ; and the more difficult he found
it, the harder he tried to overcome,  dashed at
the treadle, thrust in the wool, made the spools
fl} : but all to no purpose. As often as not,
the wheel spun round the wrong way, and a
weary unfeeling had to be gone through before
he could get under weigh again : then, to avoid
the constant snapping of the thread, he would
permit it to grow thicker and thicker, until it
resembled a rope in size and toughness, entering
only with difficulty its narrow aperture 
while at other times it would dwindle, till the
end, slipping through his unaccustomed fingers,
would get lost in the reel, and, despairing of

finding it again, he would beg to be allowed to
rummage out another, which the artful rogue
himself would then slily break off for the purpose.


Kate laughed till she cried

She was very wrong to laugh, he said. She
ought to have been grieved for his misfortunes,
interested in his progress,  above all, ashamed
of herself for not giving him plainer directions.
It was all owing to the absence of proper directions
that he had not done better; and since
he was treated so unkindly, only mocked and
jeered at, instead of being helped to anything
better, he would do no more.

No, positively he would not try again  he
would sit by and see how it was done ; and
having left the wool and the wires all in a
"durable," according to the unflattering comment
of the enchanted Mrs Comline,  who entered
into the spirit of the scene from behind
her own flying threads,  he yielded his place,
said he would now watch the process only, and
drawing his former chair up, leaned his arms
on the little stand, and watched very closely
indeed.

The position was advantageous.

He could question, comment, exact explanations,
and look into her face all the time. When
a mistake was made, he could help to rectify it,
and it was odd that Kate  who had learned to
spin for hours evenly and regularly, since it was
the only occupation she had cared to take up in
the evenings  should, just when she wanted to
be at her best, to display her little accomplishment,
make mistake upon mistake. He had his
laugh at her, as they fumbled together over the
troublesome lost ends of thread ; and although
she did not like to tell him  being unsophisticated
 how infinitely better she would have done
had he not been by, there is very little doubt that
he knew as much. He took note that the little
fingers would have known more fully what they
were about had they been cooler, quieter.

Mr Comline was ere long, in his own phrase,
' covering " peacefully ; his wife presently left
ofi* noting anything beyond her own diminishing
pile of fleecy *' romans ; " and their daughter,
with her fingers flying along a stocking which
she was knitting rig-and-fur  in itself sufficiently
engrossing, as knitters will testify  was still
further abstracted from observation by having
her eyes fast on a book on her lap. It struck

Evelyn that no piano nor harp playing had ever
offered such opportunities for progressing in
intimacy with a fair performer, or even for
subtle touches of love-making, had love-making
been in the question, as did this antiquated art
of spinning.

The soft, steady evolutions of the now obedient
wheel would not have drowned the tenderest
whisper, while the tax upon the eyes and attention
of the spinner was or might be made so
slight as to leave her at liberty to talk, to smile,
to exchange glances,  to do anything that was
required.

The room might have been, perchance with
advantage, larger; the company might have been
more scattered, but, as he now and then lifted
his head to observe, they could not have been
otherwise more indulgent. While close by, 
while Lizzie Comline was on his other side, and
her parents only across the hearth, within earshot,
able to take note of all that went on, 
no one was prying, no one was intruding. He
could say and do what he chose.

Before the evening was over, all coldness and
restraint had vanished between him and Kate.
She was talking freely, eagerly; she was smiling

at his jests, and listening, even stopping her busy-hand
to listen,, when his conversation grew too
interesting. Instead of shunning his notice, she
seemed pleased by it, encouraged and cheered, 
a different creature, in short.

He had no need to look about for aids to
chat.

He had been in the humour, to begin with
and afterwards nothing came amiss.

When presently the circle woke up to life
again,  when the farmer reopened his eyes, and
the gudewife closed her labours, and Lizzie her
book,  he could be ready to take up anew the
post of general entertainer, and pass the jest
round into which all could enter, delighted to
find that the solitary exception to the innocent
hilarity of the evening was now no longer grave,
that not one among them all was dull, gloomy,
nor uneasy.

It was enough to kindle animation afresh.
He might not catch the point of every phrase,
nor the precise meaning of each term or idiom,
but he usually contrived to do without interpretation.
Lizzie Comline and his sister Kate
should not feel that he was in any way holding
aloof, that the relations of the one were beyond

the pale of those with whom he could cheerfully
associate ; and disgusted as he was at the moment,
with the folly and heartlessness of his
own parent, he told himself repeatedly that this
farmer's daughter, however far she might have
left hers behind as regarded outward appearances,
was fortunate in having one of whom,
in all essential points, she needed never to be
ashamed.

The evening closed with goodwill on every
side; they knelt together as one household before
the Giver of all good ; and Evelyn, as he held
open the door for the two girls to depart by
their own staircase, called presently after them
to bid them observe the scene without, where
the moonbeams on the water, still bright, though
heavy rain was grimly pursuant from the south,
was worth opening their shutters to see. He
was certainly making progress.

The rain came on, as foretold, and just stopped
short of the undesired spate.

Nothing could have been better : and as for
Kate's promise, it was fulfilled without a word ;
in truth, she had thought of little else since it
had been given ; and somewhat intimidating as
was the prospect, she would have been hardly

less disappointed than the projector of the scheme
himself, if it had had to be given up.

They set forth, assured that the burn would
be at its best.

'san' that's as it sold be," commented the
old host, as he stood looking after the young
figures, whose rapid, springing step soon took
them to a distance. *' That's what I ne'er thocht
to see, neither. Noo, shell tell him a' her tale,
an' he'll hear the riches o' the story. Lord, to
think o't ! Him that my Teddy hands sic a work
wi', her grand English son, to turn round like
this and bite her ! Her prides' state bit to
come low  mony's the day I hae said sae ; but,
my certe, I little thocht it would ! They're a
braw couple, the twa, and wad mak' a braw 
hoots ! what am I thinking' o' ? He's her ain
brother, or as like; they'll be fain to think o'
nothing mair."

The reader is aware, however, that matters did
not stand precisely as the oracular Comline supposed,
and that even the thrust to her pride,
from which he presumed his noble enemy to be
suffering, had not as yet been given.

Lady Olivia, knowing nothing of the pair who
were so merrily wending their way to the hill

VOL. I.

that balmy morning, nor of the chuckle at her
expense which the rejoicing farmer had sent
after them, was so far from anticipating any
blow from such a quarter, that she was more
complacent and benign than she had been for
some time, and was disposed not only to look
upon her lines as having, on the whole  now
that she had got rid of her chief tormentor 
fallen in pleasant places, but to extend her borders
thereof, and that in a way which is of some
importance to our story.

In the west wing of Carnochan, up a narrow
spiral stair that communicated with itself alone,
there was a small, three-cornered turret-chamber,
whose oriel window overlooked the lake,
and into which the glories of the setting sun for
many months in the year nightly penetrated.
It was a snug little apartment when reached ;
but it was so far removed from the other sitting-rooms,
that the inconvenience of being out of
the way whenever anything happened, or when
wanted by the rest of the family, was so much
felt, that no one had ever cared to inhabit the
triangle  as it was called  but Kate, to whom its
very disadvantages endeared it. The not being
causelessly interrupted was just what she valued;

and she was so seldom wanted by ODe or another
for any real reason, that she could not care about
saving them the trouble of a hunt. Besides,
they might reckon on her being there if necessary,
since a petition for its sole use had a few
years before been granted ; and since then its
walls had been embellished by her books and
pictures, its table by her writing-desk and such
of her other possessions as Maidie's rapacity had
spared, and its window endeared by the memory
of many a musing hour.

The renunciation of this retreat had been an
additional grief of heart to the solitary-minded
girl when sent forth on her exile,  or, to be
strictly correct, the thought of it had come back
to her with many pangs after the first tumult
of superior emotions had subsided.

At the time, it had scarcely been thought of,
but subsequently it had been felt to be a daily
loss. She had, at the farm, no place to be alone
in ; and none but true lovers of solitude can
appreciate such a deprivation. If the weather
were unfit for her to wander abroad, she must
be ever within sight and hearing of all that
went on within ; she could not withdraw herself
and sit up-stairs without Lizzie's kind voice

ofFering to keep her company. Her little chamber
at Carnochan was the chief pleasure she
looked forward to regaining when the day of
her recall should arrive.

Now it so happened that Lady Olivia, on the
morning after her son's departure, having nothing
else to do, set forth upon a tour of the
house, and, as ill-luck would have it, hit upon
Kate's sanctum.

She was aware of its existence  knew, at least,
that there was some such place, some little pokey
back-den, called by the children Kate's room, or
the *' triangle ; " but neither of these designations
had prepared her for a little abode which,
at the first glance, seemed ridiculously good for
such a purpose. True, the chintz were worn
and faded, and the furniture a collection of
refuse odds and ends  but what of this ? The
whole was harmonious, and the view from the
window exquisite.

This the lair of that little sharp - clawed
tigress ? It was really too bad ; she felt as if
she had been kept out of it, excluded, defrauded
of her knowledge of so much enchantment, in
that she had never before found her way thither.
Before looking round three minutes she was convinced

that she was in one of the best rooms in
the house, and a servant was summoned to clear
away Miss Kate's things, put them in her bedroom,
and remove the furniture to the attics.

I shall," said Lady Olivia, " have a boudoir
surpassing Lady Julia's, and as entirely different
from, as it excels, any I have ever seen. A most
absurd idea it was indeed, to make no use of
such an elegant little retreat."

Even to herself she would not say that any
feeling of vindictiveness towards the late owner
urged her on to take possession ; the room was
simply being made "no use" of, and if it were
absolutely necessary that the young lady must
have a sitting-room of her own on her return,
another could he found which would equally
well answer her purpose.

Not a qualm disturbed her self - exultation
over so lucky a discovery, and she announced it
to her husband in the presence of his daughters,
together with her intentions on the subject, and
her ideas as to the patterns of rep and damask,
for which she had written without losing a post.

*' Kate's room!" whispered Marjorie, loud
enough to be heard ; Alice pursed up her lips ;
and Bertha wrote to Kate the next day. It

was something to have such an item of news to
communicate ; and Bertha, who was herself in
the chronic position of an aggrieved one, now
looked upon Kate with a fraternal eye, and told
her of her wrongs with a plainness of speech
which was not intended to soothe nor to lighten
the offence.

This was what was going on at Carnochan.
Let us now return to the unwittingly and blissfully
ignorant Kate.

She was having, perhaps, the happiest day
her life had ever known. Showers and sunshine
succeeded each other overhead, but all was sunshine
within. The trout took well in the deep
pools below the waterfalls ; and she would not
be left behind, even when the banks were high
and steep, but went down with her fisherman
to the very brink. The trees overhung closely,
and she could slip from bough to bough, and be
drawn at last on to the ledge whither he had preceded
her, and whence she could watch, in silent
appreciation, the silvery trout pulled out from
beneath the very jaws of the falls, laying them
afterwards, with her own little fingers, on the
grass at the bottom of the creel. That was conceded
to her as her part of the day's work.

If she were absolutely forced to remain on
the moor above while he descended, the cliff
proving altogether untenable for feminine footing,
she was anxious and eerie, in a state of
excited perturbation for which she had no name,
but directly he rejoined her, all was well :
the hours had never passed more quickly.

As for " telling her tale," neither Kate nor
Evelyn opened their lips on the subject.

Time enough, he thought, when he should
have won her confidence,  when he had seen
that timid glance able to face his own, and that
ever-ready blush more slow in coming. Then,
indeed, he might hope to enter on more delicate
matters, but at present he knew better. She
was but half tamed.

And so he spent the evening again beside her
spinning-wheel ; and there was another day on
the burn, and yet another lesson in the mysteries
of the craft at night, more interesting and engrossing
than either which had gone before, and
yet nothing had been said of his mission.

'' Weel," said the farmer, to whom a sort of
explanation had been made, Kate being out of
the room ; " tak' your time, Captain  there's nae
call to fash yourself'. Lord, what sold ken but

yersel' 1 An' gentry folks is fashions to us
wha senna their ways  letting' alone that or
bit customer ben the loose is a wee thing
camstairy upo' her ain account. Let her alone,
that's the plan : hurry nae man's cattle, say-eth
the Proverbs o' Solomon ; an' that while is
sure done, is ill done."

There'll be nae mair burn-work for a while
though, Captain," he observed, on the re-entrance
of Miss Newbattle ; '' there'll be an even-down
pour the night, by the ark i' the clouds I showed
ye the noo, 'and ye'll see what like the water
will be the morn ! Miss Kate nun tak ye to
see the states, the cercle  the what-d'ye-ca'-it ?
Or stop a wee,  there's the Abbey."

The Abbey, however, was the favourite resort
of the ladies at Castle Kenrick, and Evelyn
hastily declined it. " 'Tweed, there's the states,
then," rejoined Mr Comline, somewhat disappointed
; '* Tse warrant ye hanna been there, for
they're no muckle kenned o'."

' What is that, Kate '? Something interesting,
I am sure ? This country is full of interesting
things  either abbeys, or castles, or forts, or
caves "

Not one of them is this," cried Kate, joyously

: her eyes were as bright and her bloom
as steady that night as though she had been
a mirthful lassie with a heart at ease, and all
besides to her mind. "You have just missed
saying the right word. You will see, but I
won't tell you what you will see "

No. Take me."

'' If you are sure you care to go 1 "

I do indeed care to go."

Lizzie, you will come ; and we must start
early, for it is a good walk."

'' Mickle over saur for Lizzie," said her father,
drily. 'lizzie's best at hame, forbye. Gang
yer ways, Miss Kate, my dear, and here's your
brother to see after ye : wow, but it's a new
face ye hae on the night ! "

You think her walk has done her good,"
said Evelyn, frankly inspecting the improvement.
" I think so too. I wonder, Kate, what
they would all have thought of that jump
beneath the *bridge ! "

Throughout the evening they were continually
making allusions to their ramble. As they
ate the trout, they disputed to which pool one
and another had belonged : and even the prospect
of another expedition on the following day,

could scarcely make amends for losing the sport
and the scenery of the moor.

But all out-of-door projects had to be abandoned
when the dawn broke, and it was seen
what sort of weather was in store. Hour after
hour the clouds emptied themselves in ceaseless
torrents, and Evelyn was fain to find variety
in a wet ride to the village for the newspaper,
and any letters that might chance to be at the
post-office. None, of course, would be awaiting
himself, but he was diverted to perceive that
the one for Miss Newbattle which was put into
his hand, was directed in large childish writing,
and bore the Kirkcudbright post-mark. It was
certainly from Carnochan.

By the way," he reflected, '' this will show
my fair Kate that my presence here is unbeknown
at headquarters, which will be a good
opening for a '' series conversation,' as Mr Com-line
calls it. I must find out how matters stand.
I must really perform, my duty in that respect.
This taking her about, and talking nonsense, byway
of cheering up her spirits, is all very agreeable
; and as long as I am here, I don't know
that I wish her to think about anything more :
but to leave her behind ! No, no ; it is not to

Le thouolit of,  she must be back at Carnochan
before I am. I could take a run down the Mull,
so as to be out of the way, and make all things
natural, if I can but bring her to reason. They
must come to terms somehow, that's a fact ; and
I should imagine my young madam won't be
in such a hurry to break the peace another time.
Poor little thing, she has had a lesson ! "

Kate received her letter, and looked at it
dubiously.

* From home, is it ?" said Evelyn, with the
freedom warranted by his position and his knowledge
of her affairs. *did you expect me to
bring you that ? I am weet through, but I have
had a famous ride, and got my paper. It is
clear now, Kate ; come with me along the shore
before the liszt goes. I won't be five minutes
in changing my things."

He was ten, but no one was there when he
came down, and at last he went in search of
Lizzie, whom he heard in the back regions, and
despatched her to see what was the matter.

I think," said the delegate, when she returned,
*' that you must excuse Kate to-day.
Captain Evelyn. Her letter has rather upset
her. Some little annoyance "

'' Indeed '? "

She would rather be left to herself."

'' But, my dear Miss Comline, don't you perceive
that it is this very being left to herself
which is doing your pupil so much harm 1 She
ought to be drawn out of herself, to talk about
her troubles. You should make her confide
in you "

You forget. Captain Evelyn, that Kate

is hardly my pupil even now, and at Carnochan
I was only permitted to be her occasional companion
 to read with her, but not to teach her, '
nor have any authority over her. Deeply as I
am interested in dear Kate, I cannot presume
to dictate to her."

Exactly, Miss Comline ; you are in the
right, as usual. You are not the person. /
am. Send her down to me."

CHAPTER XL

A BROTHERLY ADMONITION.

Lay aside life-harming heaviness,
And cultivate a cheerful disposition."

Richard II.

Screening her face from observation as well as
she could, and wrapped in the old shawl she
had worn on the occasion of their first meeting,
Kate obeyed the second summons. He could
see at a glance that she had been weeping passionately,
and that it was no time to affect a
jaunty ignorance, nor to greet her with the playful
reproach that might have suited another mood.

They walked in silence down the little pathway
to the shore ; and even when there, it was
only an occasional comment on the tide, the sky,
or the overhanging cliffs, Which passed between
them for a considerable time.

At length, having stumbled along to a good

distance, and feeling confident of not being interrupted,
Evelyn felt it was as well to speak.

Sit down, Kate ; I have a great deal to say,
and I am sure that you will now allow me to
say it. Here is a cleft in the rock, quite dry, 
come. I am so sorry you got that letter," he
added, in his kindest tones.

Thank you  thank you."

Will you tell me about it ? "

'' I am afraid you would not understand ;

but "

" Well V '

 A long pause.

Then came the outburst. " They never mean
to have me back again,  they mean to keep me
away all my life  all my life. My room, my
own little room, that papa gave me for my very,
very own, has been taken from me, and all my

things put away  and  and She had no

right to do it  no right to do it. Oh, you don't
know the things she does, and I can't tell you,
because she is your mother "

You may tell me," said Evelyn, gently,
'' anything. Say what you please ; and believe
me, Kate, that if I can help you I will."

I don't think you can," sorrowfully.

"Is it about this room that you heard today"


Yes. Bertha wrote. Bertha says it is all
settled,"  sobbing afresh,  " and that papa
never said a word. It is to be Lady Olivia's
boudoir  my own little room ! She never asked
any one ; she never told papa till the thing was
done : she had given orders to have it cleared
first ; and then she had written for new furniture
to put in it. Oh, how dared she "? It was
a shame, a shame. The room was mine ; and to
go and steal it when I was away "

It was as shabby a trick as I ever heard of,"
acknowledged Evelyn, candidly; "but I would
not take it so to heart, if I were you. That
won't do any good, you know. Come, don't
cry. You speak to your father ; and if Lady
Olivia won't disgorge this particular domain,
he'll give you another you'll like as well "

There is not another room in the house

I would care to have."

He smiled.

If you knew,' continued Kate, struggling
for breath and speech, " what  what  it was tome
! It was the only place I was ever happy in.
No one could come to me there, and  and "

illogically, '* I see what it all means. I am not
to go home again  never to go home again ;
never to be taken away from here "

My dear child, you are mistaken altogether.
You have taken a mere fancy into your head.
It was a cruel thing to do to send you here,
poor little thing ! " putting his hand on her
shoulder,  " to fret among these solitudes ; but
I came on purpose to deliver you''

No, no ; you did not. I see by this letter
that you did not. Nobody sent you : oh, why
did you come ? "

*' Are you sorry I came ? "

Why did you come 1 " continued Kate, as
though she hardly knew what she was saying.
I know you meant to be kind, and it is not
your fault; but you had better have left me
alone. If you had stayed there, it would have
been far better : you have done me no good."

'' Now," said Evelyn, decidedly,  *' now,
Kate, you are going to be a good girl : dry
your eyes, and talk sense. You know very well
that you have merely to say you are sorry, and
mean to behave better in future, and a few proper
little speeches of that kind, and you can
come out of your corner tomorrow. Don't look

SO determined over it : wait a minute, and let
us talk it over quietly. You and my mother
don't get on ; that I understand very well. But
it appears that you were not an entirely harmonious
family party even before Lady Olivia's
day. I heard more than one hint dropped
about a certain ' naughty Kate ' that had no
reference to the step-mothers''

By whom '? By Alice ? " quickly.

I wonder if it is fair to say ? But my chief
informant was the blue-eyed fairy."

Was it Maidie ? " exclaimed Kate, in such
surprise and evident mortification that Evelyn,
who had seen himself in a scrape, and had
pitched upon the child, judging that her infantile
volubility would be less likely to aggrieve
than the tale-telling of an older person, perceived
at once the fresh error he had fallen into.

Well, it was Maidie," he said, however.
Maidie is not a very formidable traitor, is she 1
I think she had a kind of lurking affection even
for the  naughty Kate,' at whose name she shook
her head."

Maidie ! " said her sister, as though deeply
hurt. " My little Maidie ! "

*' You are very fond of your little sister ? "
VOL. I. p

She had turned her head away.

C' I must bring this to bear," thought Evelyn.
It is a good idea to work upon")

At last, and bit by bit, it all came out ; nothing
 so far as the narrator knew at least  being
kept back or distorted from the truth ; but to
an unblessed ear, it was plain that a jaundiced
view of every circumstance, of every trifling
word and deed, had been involuntarily taken ;
that a naturally high spirit, checked, curbed,
and thwarted on every hand  chafed by contact
with grosser natures, with all its purest affections
repressed, and its noblest aspirations jeered
at  had at length proved a soil in which the root
of bitterness had taken the place of every tender
blossom.

To Evelyn, accustomed as he was to the sunny
side of life, to floating along its glittering surface,
without a thought of deep and troubled waters,
there was something in such a revelation that
was not only unintelligible, but positively appalling
; and had the voice which made it been
one degree less feminine, and the form by his side
been less fragile and willow-like, bending beneath
the force of its own vehemence, he would probably
have repented of his knight-errantry, and

foresworn all further efforts on behalf of Kate
Newbattle.

As it was, he listened with a comical mixture
of sympathy and consternation.

What in the world could any one do for this
hare-brained girl, unstrung in her nerves, extravagant
in her passions, and possessed of but one
idea?

He had had no notion of anything so bad as
this. How was it likely that even a temporary
truce should be patched up between the opposing
forces, when insubordination and hatred  yes,
hatred was the word,  two stubborn things to
deal with,  seemed to have entwined themselves
around every fibre of the foolish child's nature ?
To look at her, who could have believed it?
The face, the beautiful face, that had been such
a pleasure to behold a few hours before, was
now clouded like the angry sky overhead, every
feature distorted by the storm which had broken
forth, and which had left all disordered behind.
Her whole frame was trembling. It was a  a
pretty kettle of fish altogether.

One thing was obvious : Kate must be soothed
and quieted, but she must also be brought down
a peg.

Siicli gesticulation, such flashing of eyes and
torrents of eloquence, were altogether disturbing
and embarrassing; and though no doubt it
was very funny, he did not find himself inclined
to laugh.

He was fairly silenced, in short, whilst thus
ruminating ; and as it turned out, silence was
the thing of all others most likely to have a
beneficial effect upon the excited young lady.
Her feelings having uninterrupted vent, they
carried her to the end of her tether pretty
smartly, and shame crept in. An uneasy sense
of having gone too far began to show itself.
Her tone said plainly, " Comfort me."

Evelyn, however, took no notice.

She stole a glance round. He was stolidly
gazing at the grey waste of rolling billows in
front, as though he intended to say no more
after all he had heard ; and there was time for
anxiety and a new distress to awake in her
bosom ere he looked round, looked into her
face, and smiled.

And now," said he, " prepare for a lecture."

*' Oh yes," with a sigh of relief.

** You are a strange girl, Kate ; and you are
only seventeen "

How did you know that ? "

Don't interrupt the court ; I know you are.
Seventeen thinks a great deal of nonsense," continued
Evelyn, with the sententiousness of eight-and-twenty
; ' and a certain seventeen, not two
miles off, has  she must excuse me for saying
so  shown a peculiar aptitude for the gift."

You take it in that way ? " exclaimed Kate,
bitterly. " Then I have no friend left."

May I take it," said Evelyn, " more seriously
'? May I "  putting his hand on hers, but
less affectionately than impressively  " speak
as one who is many years older, who has seen
a good deal of the world, and who  pshaw ! 
I can't be grandiloquent. But it is not worth
it, Kate. Believe me, my dear Kate, it is not
ivorth all this."

Worth what ? " said Kate, with some natural
bewilderment. " I don't understand."

They say at Carnochan that you are wayward
and self-willed. You see yourself injured
and ill-treated. Shall I tell you what / see '? "

Yes," rather faintly.

I see, Kate, a motherless girl "

'' And "homeless."

'' No, not homeless, dear ; don't talk nonsense.

Now, I must begin over again ; and you spoilt
the rounded period besides. I am really in earnest
now, Kate ; so listen. If you are motherless,
you have a kind and most indulgent father.
If your home be not all that you wish, it is
beautiful and comfortable. If you do not find
your sisters much of companions, I'm sure you
love them  one of them very dearly. Now tell
me, have you ever set yourself to see if there be
nothing in you " he stopped.

"Well?"

"If your home be unhappy, have you ever
tried to make it otherwise ? "

No answer.

* If they speak unkindly of you behind your
back, have you kind thoughts of them ? "

No answer.

From all I have heard on both sides'' continued
Evelyn, slowly and clearly, " I have no
hesitation in saying which I think to be most 
not alone  but chiefly to blame. Do you know,
Kate, which it is ? ''

"You."

He could not think afterwards how he had
had the courage to say it : it had only been by

keeping his eyes steadfastly the other way that
he had been able to speak the word, and having
spoken, to allow it to stand.

But the truth was, that Evelyn, like most softhearted
people, when ground up to the point,
could be tolerably severe ; driven to break the
ice by dire necessity, when once fairly in for it,
he would not trust himself to look back ; and,
resolved in this instance to push his valour
(I Voutrance, he pronounced the last few sentences
in a slow, cold manner, that sank like
lead into the heart of his auditor.

It was some minutes before she could steady
herself sufficiently to utter another syllable ; but
at length Pride summoned Resolution, and by
their joint aid she rose, saying, '' I daresay you
are right ; but that being the case, there is no
more to be said. I  I think I will find my own
way home."

"You are offended, Kate, and not justly,"
said Evelyn, with warmth. *you told me I
was to speak ; I warned you I should not
flatter; and now you are angry because you
have heard the truth!"

She stood still. "The truth," she repeated,
as if to herself. " The truth."

Yes, the truth. Sit down again, my dear
little sister," he continued, more gently, 'sand
think it over for yourself. You say that one
and all are against you ? I don't allow that,
mind ; but still, suppose they are ? Is it likely
that a whole lot of people would be against one,
if she were not in fault  pretty much in fault 
eh, Kate ? It stands to reason, don't you see ? "

They have made me what I am''

Why should you not be more like them ? "

'' Because I dislike and despise them," con
fusco.

"Oh, Kate!"

I do, I do ; I would not be like Lady Olivia
or  or Alice for the world. Even papa  he is
not unkind, but he is not what you think ; he
does not really care for us ; he will not trouble
himself nor put himself out of his way for anyone
of us : anybody may do and say what they
like, so long as they do not interfere with him.
When I tried to show him how things were
going wrong, he called me a mischief-maker !
All papa cares for is his own ease and comfort.
Would you have me like him ? "

I think your father's ease and comfort ought
to be a matter of concern to you."

That is begging the question."

Eh ? " said Evelyn, opening his eyes. Clearly
he must not let her take the initiative in this
way.

When people are mean, and selfish, and untruthful,
you wish me to imitate them ? "

'' I retract the words," said Evelyn, looking
her full in the face.

Extract the words ! No power on earth would
have made Kate own to retracting one of her
words in the heat of combat. She was staggered
by the novelty of such an experience.

I retract," repeated her companion, " and
confess that I was wrong, and you are right.
I would not wish you to resemble any one of
those you named any more than you would wish
it yourself. I would not be more willing to see
you take their shape than you would yourself.
You are superior to them in every way but one.
Kate, why have you such a temper ? "

It was easy to get on after that. Throughout
all the harangue which followed  and she had
it pretty roundly from him too  she could not
for a moment lose sight of the tenor of that last
sentence, and he was allowed to say what he
chose of her temper. He spoke long, and he

spoke well, for he liked  as who would not have
done ?  the pleasant task. An occasional faint
remonstrance at the outset only gave additional
significance to her subsequent silent acquiescence
; and the piteousness of the stag-like
eyes, which seemed to implore forbearance, added
zest to the pleasure of feeling it was in his own
they sought consolation.

At length it was agreed upon that he should
go back to Carnochan on the following day, and,
if he found an opening, tender such submission
from the rebel as might lead to her recall. If
no opportunity offered, he was to come back to
the Farm, in which case she pledged herself to
write. All things considered, it was perhaps as
well that he should go at once; but he was
perhaps a very little nettled to find that his
departure was urged. He thought he had done
very well, and would have stayed a few days
longer with her, if Kate had pressed him.

As to his interceding for her personally, he
had his doubts as to how that would work. He
would go, but a voice within whispered that he
would certainly return.

Lady Olivia was charmed to receive her darling
back on the next evening ; and being full of

her new toy, and not expecting anything amusing
from the experiences of a fishing tour, he found
it easy to escape curiosity, or rather there was
none to elude. He was told at once about the
boudoir, and conducted to it forthwith.

It was now bare, swept, and clean, awaiting
its new perishing.

' Shall I carpet the floor all round, Eupert ? ''
inquired his mother, " or be content with only a
bit of Turkey in the centre ? Lady Julia Throck-
morton had nothing but rugs, and the effect was
unique ; but the shape of this room would hardly
suit rugs. It is odd, is it not ? I never saw a
three walled room before ; did you ? "

Not that I am aware of."

He had next to go to the window to view the
lake, and the place where the vista was to be
opened up, in order to show the distant mountains.


But after all, it is the curious, romantic
little perch itself that is so charming," cried its
new possessor. "A little ordinary room may
with pains be dressed up to look very nice, but
this is so distinctive, so uncommon  all by itself
up here, there is no limit to what it might be."

"It is in an awfully out-of-the-way place.

ma'am, if you mean that. What a place to get
at every day of your life ! ''

'My dear boy''

Who is to find jou out, up here among all
the bedrooms ? A boudoir ought not to be
among a lot of bedrooms."

' Who is to know they are bedrooms ? "

"What else could they be T'

At any rate, it is not among them ; it cannot
be called being among them, to be at the very
far end of the gallery. I think its dear little
retired position is one of its chief charms."

*' A dear little retired position, certainly ! "
He could think of nothing else to say, but
completed the sentence with an ironical laugh.

But, my dear Rupert " Lady Olivia was

evidently disturbed. She could not understand
his picking holes ; it was unlike him to damp
any plan ; and when called upon to say a thing
was right, she had always reckoned on his doing
so. Not having so far had the sympathy of anyone
but her quiescent husband,  who wanted to
fell some timber, as it happened, and contrived
that his doing so should open up his lady's vista
at the same time,  she had reckoned on the interest
of her son, and here was Rupert only speaking

to find fault ! She did not so much mind
his standing in silence looking out of the window
while she spoke, but for him not to agree at the
end was very bad. At length he roused himself.
"Well," he said, '' you will not expect to
see me here much, so I need not mind. I shall
come to you in the library, or the drawing-room
"

*' But I am not going to sit in the library or

the drawing-room," protested Lady Olivia, almost
in tears. " I mean to be found here, in my own
boudoir, by any one who wants me. I have
written to Howard's for a chair like your own
at Evelyn Towers, on purpose for you, Eupert.
It is to be placed there, just where you will catch

the view. No one else is to use it "

It will not be worn out soon, then.

Thank you, ma'am, for the chair, but it had better
be placed somewhere else." To hear Lady Olivia
descanting on this and that, doing the honours
of the window, the fireplace, and the door, exulting
in the domain she had taken alike by force
and fraud, enraged him .till he hardly knew
what he said. In that room he could see only
Kate ; and her large, full, swimming eye seemed
to rise before him whichever way he turned.

Even in being there at all, and in listening to
his mother, he felt a coward and a traitor.

How very " began Lady Olivia, plaintively.


"What"

'' Unkind."

"Unkind? I don't see that. The room is
for you, not me. You will be quite happy here
without me."

Indeed, Eupert, you know better. If you
take it so " She looked round disconsolately.
" I had better, perhaps "

He held his breath  recollected himself,
and affected to yawn. *I think Til go down
now," he said. " I promised Alice to go
round to the stables and look at her pony's
knee."

'' Always Alice ! Do wait a minute and see
about this room "

'' Holloa ! There she is. All right, Alice,"
calling from the window, "I'll be down directly.
Well now, ma'am, what do you want me to see ? "
pressing the enemy sore.

If I were  were to take another apartment
"

"Well"

*rare you sure, quite sure, that you would
make it worth my while ? "

*' Can't say, ma'am  that is for you to decide."


' Would you be prevailed upon to spend
some little portion of your time with your poor
mother, who sees so little of you, if she followed
your advice, and gave up her own way for yours
in this instance ? "

Her son laughed unpleasantly.

Why do you laugh like that ? " demanded
Lady Olivia, more quickly.

Because you are absurd, ma'am. What do
you mean by my way ? I have no way. I tell
you what I think  that you are making a mess
of the matter. But it is no affair of mine ;
please yourself."

Could Kate have heard the mentor who had
been so severe on her undutifulness as a child
speaking thus, it is to be feared his counsels
would have been shorn of half their value.

And now I really must go," continued the
young man, turning to the door. "And you
must decide for yourself, for I have only one
thing to say  that you had better decide to
inhabit a more accessible region, if you do care

for my company ; for if you stay here ''  with
increased emphasis  " you need not expect that
I shall ever again set foot within this doorway
! "

Extraordinary ! " murmured Lady Olivia, as
the door closed. " What prejudices people do
take ! What could have set him against this
charming little abode '? Inaccessible ? I don't
see that at all. Perhaps it is a little inaccessible
; but to call it ' among the bedrooms ! ' A
boudoir may be anywhere  anywhere. Such a
cosy nest as I could have made this I It looked
quite snug, with even Kate's untidy things all
about ; but as I would have had it,  oh, it is a
pity!"

Of course she gave in, however.

Evelyn was not to be found until evening,
but then he had the assurance of his success
from her own lips. He seemed pleased for the
moment, but there was no permanent improvement
in a mood which was incomprehensible,
and which she could hardly ever remember to
have witnessed before. She coaxed him, hung
upon him, fidgeted round him ; was by turns
sure he was tired or hungry  and finally settled
on the idea that his head ached.

She felt that he found the house dull and the
evening long, that he did not hear a word of
Alice's songs or her own conversation, and  what
vexed her more than all besides  that his
humour was observed by all. That they should
see her neglected was provoking indeed.

Gradually she grew moody herself, packed Bertha
off to bed before her time, and begged Alice
to shut the piano. The piano or Alice's voice
was out of tune, she protested she could not tell
which, but they were not together. What a pity it
was that Mr Newbattle would sleep in that way
after dinner ; she was sure it was bad for him 
unwholesome, refreshing. How unsociable of
dear Rupert to read to himself the whole evening.
Would he not at least let them share his
pleasure by reading aloud 1 They all knew
the book, could take him up at any point, if he
would only begin. It was too plain it was not
for her own delectation she made the request.

However, he begged off, and to hide his ,
still affected study till the
welcome hour of breaking up arrived.

For the next ten days matters went on much
the same.

In vain did Lady Olivia, who concluded that

VOL. I. Q

her son pined for noise and company, endeavour-industriously
to collect such guests as might
be induced to favour a quiet Scotch country-house
in the last days of October. She was
nice in her choice, and those she desired to have
would not come.

Day after day she assured her dolorous guest
that things would brighten, that any post might
bring acceptations of her invitations, and that
he need not fear that they should be by themselves
much longer ; but to no purpose. She
could not fulfil her predictions, and to this she
attributed the weight upon Evelyn's spirits.

He seemed to drag through each day.

He idled, and lounged, and hung about the
doors without any apparent object for hours
together, and she expected every morning to hear
that he could stand the stagnation no longer.

At length the anticipated words were spoken,
he bade them "Good-bye," and could not say
when he should next see them again.

The evening of the same day the little party
at the Muirland Farm were startled by a step in
the passage, just as the farmer was replacing on
its shelf the large old Family Bible which vas
used at evening worship.

*' See wha's at the door, Lizzie' said he ;
and, mind you, the door sold hae been steekit
at this poor o' the night,  and Hallowe'en night
tae, when a' the folks are stravagin up and
down."

Hey !  wha's yon ? Captain Evelyn ? " as
the latch was lifted ere Lizzie could cross the
floor, and there stood in the doorway a laughing,
handsome face.

They were round him in a moment, exclaiming,
questioning, wondering, and welcoming, as
though he had been their own son and brother.

CHAPTEK XII.

THREE, FOUR, FIVE DAYS PASSED.

days remembered well ! remembered all !
The bitter-sweet, the honey, and the gall.
Those garden rambles in the dusky light,
Those trees so shady, and that moon so bright.

And then the hopes that came, and then were gone.
Quick as the clouds beneath that moon passed on,"

Crabbe.

An' this on Hallowe'en night ! " cried the
farmer. "An' we that wadna gang a step to
keep it, though twa or three's been in to bid
us ! I tell ye. Captain, that the gudewife and
me were fain to hae or nuts to crack, and or
apples to roast, as we did lang syne, for a' we re
auld and or day's gave by ; but no a hait could
wee get either o' the twa young eddies to finit
worth their while ! E'en let them be, quo' I,
but it's an unco thing to sit and hear nathan'
but the sough o' the wind overhead on Auld

Hallowe'en night. Violins they'll think the
same 'ore the night's done," slily.

*0f course they will. Here have I walked
thirty miles to keep it. I am ready to
begin "

No till you've had your supper, sir ; a
hungry man's no fit for junketin'. Lizzie,"
continued her mother,  but Lizzie had already
slipped away, on hospitable thoughts intent.
She'll see tort," said Mrs Comline, contentedly
subsiding on the discovery.

** Thirty miles ! A' the road frae Carnochan,
that is," said the farmer. "Ay, ay, he'll hae
been thinking' mair o' his supper than o' ony
auld-warld coffin' as he cam' tramping' over the
Moss o' Glenkens, I'se warrant him. It's a
weary lang tramp, yon."

*' To tell you the truth," said Evelyn, looking
up with a glowing eye, " I thought of neither.
I could think of nothing else than the poet's
glorious ' Scots wha hae,' that found its birth
upon that barren moor, and of Kate's voice
repeating it. I had a fall in consequence,
Kate," turning to her ; " I came down among
some wet stones while I stood by a stream
that reminded me of ours here, hearkening to

your ' Let him turn and flee.' You haunted
me cruelly all through the Moss ; but as you
have allowed me to land here at last, I'll forgive
you."

There's a glitt upon the burn-states that's
dangerous," observed Mr Comline. ' Ye might
hae hurt herself."

*' If I had, my spirit would still have found
its way to the Muirland Farm. Dead or
drowned, as they say, I would have kept
the tryst I had promised myself to - night.
Rain, or hail, or fire, or snow ' should not
have hindered me."

"And glad we are, sir, to see ye  and sae
sure forbye."

The worthy farmer thought such haste must
surely bode good news.

'' Soon ? " replied Evelyn. " Do you call it
soon ? The past ten days have seemed to me
the longest I ever endured. I have not come
too soon, have I, Kate ? "

'' 'Deed no," cried the tender - hearted Mrs
Comline, shocked that he should even think of
such a thing. " Come over sure ! Wi'oot it's
to tak' frae us or Missy, there's nae other way
he could come over sure  is there. Miss Kate ?

Eh, my dear, you're rosy red ! But gif ye hae
ony messages. Captain, they'll keep. Maybe
we'll no be sae blythe to hear them as we
might, shame on me that I sold say sae, fora
sir thing it is to "

Yes, yes," said Evelyn, hurriedly.

You are right  perfectly right. We'll talk
about those matters by-and-by. How is the
burn, Kate 1 And is there a ' brush about the
moon ' to-night, farmer 1 "

The farmer laughed. " Neither brush nor
moon," he said. " But ye'll no need thane nor
thither. The burn's full, and the wife's just wearying'
for a bonnie root to put i' the pan. Ye'll no'
hae mony mair days, though ; the muslin's mast
over for the season. Come over sure, quo' he 1
I ken what she's saying," indicating his gude-wife
with his forefinger. 'become over sure?
The Captain nun be o' another pirn afore he
could come over sure, gang whaup he may.'
Ay, ay, sir ; welcome, welcome. And as for
the water, did ye no' hear the noise o' the falls
as ye cam' by ? They hae been a-rummelin' and
whummelin' these twa days, till I'm heaved with
their drums."

Is my rod in order, Kate ? "

*' In order, Captain ? Ye may tak' yer with
o' that," said Mr Comline, who had got into
the habit of answering for the party generally.
It's been reeled, an' unheeded, an' rabbit, 
ta'en down and patten up again,  and I cinna
ken a' what ! Illa day it bit to hae something
done at it. Tak' my advice, sir, and leaven
the keeping' o' a gude root-rod to be the ploy o'
a young teddy another time. Ha, ha, ha ! "

I have not spoilt it  indeed I have not,"
protested Kate. " Mr Comline does not know
what he is talking about," saucily. " Mrs Com-line
showed me how to polish up the brass, and
I spread the line to dry in the sun, and that
was all. You will find it quite right tomorrow,
Eupert." He had taught her to say his name,
and it now came out quite easily, in the pleasantry
of the moment.

'* If I do not," said Rupert, with a laugh of
intelligence, "it will not have been Kate's
fault. She took such care of my watch "

'' Oh, for shame ! "

'' Ay, ay, we heard o' that," cried the farmer,
rubbing his knees in ecstasy,  " we heard
o' that. Captain. Lord, to think o' a gude
good watch lying' at the bottom o' the burn !

'Twas weel it was whaup it glinted i' the sun,
or ye might ne'er hae seen its face mair  or
been drowned seeking' it, mast like. It's name
the better for its cousin', I'll dour to say,
either."

Well, no. It hasn't gone since "

'' Gudesakes 1 No gain since ! "

"That does not signify. Here the time
flies  I am glad not to know how fast; at
Carnochan it drags  I am glad not to know
how slowly." The last sentence was for one
ear alone.

He had Kate all to himself the next day, and
was obliged to own that in her cause he had
done nothing. Her sitting-room certainly had
been regained, but such a trifle was made light
of ; he owned  he did not mince matters  but
owned honestly that he had not advanced her
interests a step. It might almost have seemed
as if a little more reticence might have been
practised, as if he needed not to have reiterated
his conviction that there was no relenting on
the part of the oppressor ; but if so, his companion
showed no signs of finding fault with
that, or with anything else he said or did.
She gave the subject the go-by. Yes ; she, who

only a week or two previously could not think,
and could scarcely speak of any other, now
dismissed it without a sigh ; nor did he find
her a whit less lively and light-hearted, after
cutting down all her hopes, than she had been
before. To a bystander the whole would have
been inexplicable.

The two went off to other topics which had
been started and partially discussed on his last
visit, and which it seemed one at least, if not
both, had been thinking over ever since. This
recluse of seventeen had read and reflected on
many points whereof her companion was absolutely
ignorant ; and the pleasure it evidently
afforded her to be allowed to open out her mind
on these  to find, in her so-called brother, an
answering, responsive mind, and to be drawn on
and encouraged, instead of being chidden and
laughed at  gave alike to herself and her conversation
a fresh charm in Evelyn's eyes. She
knew nothing of the world, but she was learned
in other lore. She recited to him, with an enthusiasm
that was as novel as it was bewitching,
poetic pieces, phantasies, dramatic scenes ; and
whenever a noble or heart-stirring sentiment
entered in, it was delightful to witness the play

of her features, and to hear the tremors of her
voice. She was a born actress, he told her. He
had said the same before, and had bidden her
have some more such recitations ready for him
when next he should appear,  which command,
we may be sure, was not disobeyed.

Each day fresh stores were unrolled. When
they came down from the hill, he would loiter
with her about the shore, or along the straggling
overgrown walks of the old-fashioned garden ;
and each day found him less and less inclined
to quit the wild, isolated spot.

No one said a word. *' For if anything
comes o't after a'," whispered Mr Comline, with
a gigantic attempt at solemnity, " I for ane wad
say it was the Lord's judgment."

All now understood that the present attempt
at a reconciliation had failed; and although their
faith in Evelyn's powers as a mediator might on
this account be somewhat shaken, their confidence
in his having done what he could was such,
that they only sought to heap more attentions
and more hospitality than ever on his head, in
token that they in no wise took to heart his
want of success. They were also not a little
proud of their visitor. It was something to

harbour a prince, as it were, from the ranks
of the enemy.

And then he was no trouble, needed no looking
after.

The whole day long he was out with their
other visitor ; at evening he joined and was the
life of their homely repast ; and afterwards he
hung over his "sister's" wheel till bedtime.
Then he had his pipe, and turned in, like a
respectable, steady-going, reasonable young gentleman.
As long as he was content, they could
not but be proud and happy.

Three, four, five days passed.

Evelyn was in the orchard one evening with
Kate, in the soft cloudy dusk, and they were
picking up the apples which had fallen from the
trees, whilst the gulls walked about among the
upturned potato - roots, when a little incident
occurred. It was a mere nothing  she wished
she could give over thinking of it afterwards.
It was only that, finding among the long tendrils
of the raspberry-bushes a poor little rose-tree of
a common kind with one half-blown bud upon it,
she had stooped to twist the latter off, and with
the usual remark about its being the 'last rose
of summer," had tendered it to Evelyn.

On taking it he had looked at her  and she
could not tell what that look signified.

She had felt hot and foolish at the moment,
and the look kept recurring to her memory
from time to time.

Some hours afterwards, he took the little rose
out of his button-hole and laid it on the stand
of her spinning-wheel, while with infinite pains
and care he cut down a piece of cardboard from
which she had unwound some of her yarn, and
folded it into the shape of a book ; between its
pages was then placed the China rose-bud ; and
finally, to keep all straight, a hole was bored on
each side  unluckily, good Mrs Comline had left
her best scissors within reach  and a piece of
the wool Kate was spinning at the moment was
broken off for him by her, at his desire, and
was drawn through and tied in a knot at the
back. When all was complete, he surveyed his
work complacently, took out a pencil to write
something outside, and put the whole in his
pocket. What could it mean ?

His hand seemed to touch hers more frequently
than usual as he took his nightly
lesson, and yet he did not progress the better
for it ; and then at parting he called her to the

window, and standing behind her there, having
thrown back the cumbrous shutters for a moment,
bade her watch the sails that were making their
way southwards one after another, bowing up
and down on the waves as they passed.

She drew a sigh as she looked.

'' What is that for, Kate 1 "

*' On they go," said Kate, dreamily  " on and
on. No rest, no staying still, no quiet. They
toss and toss "

*' Well, they toss into harbour at last."

Or founder on the rocks."

How sadly you speak ! You are thinking
that your little bark has foundered somehow ?
Eh, was that not it ? Never fear ; she will
spread her sail and skim away over the waters
yet. She only needs a consort to take her
under convoy. Look, do you see those two ? 
those are partners ; they go always together ; it
is by far the best way. Don't you think so ?
What  Oh, good night, then."

Kate, I have been thinking over a plan,"
said her brother the next day,  it was wet and
windy, and he had been out by himself in the
morning. " I have been thinking over a plan ;
shall I tell you what it is ? "

Perhaps it is the same as mine' said Kate,
brightly. "I have been thinking over a plan
too, Eupert. How strange ! Perhaps they will
turn out to be the same."

Perhaps' said Eupert, with rather a peculiar
smile. " Your turn is first, so begin."

Is it about Maidie ? "

About Maidie ! Well' after a moment's
pause of surprise  " well, go on. What about
Maidie ? "

*' You told me that Lady Olivia said that she
had been ordered sea air. Now, why should
they all go off to Brighton  such a long, long
way  just because Maidie needs sea air ? Here
is the most beautiful, the most delightful sea air
in the world. Oh, Eupert, do you think you
could get them to send Maidie here to me ? I
would take such care of her  indeed I would.
And I would go on with her lessons. Mademoiselle
Pierrepoint might mark out what she
was to learn, and  and "

And you would be content to remain at the
farm ? "

Yes, indeed, as long as they choose, if I had
Maidie. I am going to write as I promised,
you know,"  faltering a little,  " but perhaps

you would suggest this for me ? I could not
do it for myself'

'' And this is your plan ? "

' You don't speak as if you thought it a good
one ; but if you are afraid that Mr and Mrs
Comline might not like it, I am sure you need
not be. They are very rich, Eupert ; they have
plenty of money ; and Maidie would be a perfect
delight to them. She is such a dear little thing.
I would not have asked them to have Bertha ;
Bertha would not have done here at all ; but
Maidie would be no trouble, and she would be
so happy "

And you would be happy too ? "

'' Happy *? I should be as happy as the day
is long. This dear old place, with its rocks and
waves and sea-birds  I love it so much "

"I had no idea of that. I rather gathered
you were pining here when first I came. Car-nolan
was all in all then,  or I was very dull
of apprehension."

I  I have got used to it," panting a little
under his eye ; " it has seemed more homelike
lately."

You underrated your blessings until I came
to point them out ? Now to my mind this old

farmhouse on the cliff, with its ruined orchard
and battered-down trees, this curious 
region, is the most perfect place to winter
in I ever saw. There are the marshes above for
snipe and woodcock, and the little tarn beyond
for teal  Brewster is off for the season, so anybody
could get leave to shoot  besides all sorts
of stray birds about the shore ; and there are
the herring to go after,  by the way, I must find
out when those boats go out again  it would
be rare sport when the takes are good ; and the
starlings  I should go after the starlings too 
they are all about those sandy banks."

Yes, yes ; I understand. It is not the old
orchard and the battered-down trees that are
the attraction ; it is the shooting and fishing''

He did not altogether dispute the charge ;
good sport certainly did enhance the charms
of every locality,  but still he liked the farm.
Would she come for a walk along the cliffs ?

She had never yet shown him the hermit's
cave, and he had been promised a sight of that
curiosity every day. Although it was showery,
he knew she would not mind a wetting ; the
tide was up, and everything was propitious.

As they walked along she was full of her new
VOL. I. R

plan  so full indeed, that it escaped her notice
how completely she had the conversation in her
own hands. Beyond a good - natured remark,
designed to draw her on, Evelyn neither encouraged
the idea nor threw cold water on it.
She could not gain his opinion.

She had his hand, his eye, his care over every
stile, or streamlet finding its way ocean wards ;
but directly she resumed her monologue he remained
impassive, and the expression with which
he heard her was inscrutable.

His own scheme, he declared, could wait ; he
would disclose it presently.

At length they descended to the side of the
roaring surge.

The tide was at its height, and more than
once during their walk they had paused to
admire the flying spray which shot into the air
from unseen breakers beneath ; and now, on a
level with the water, and standing as they did
on a headland jutting out sharply into the midst
of the billows, they could behold on both sides
miles and miles of the foaming sea-line.

The heavens  which, heavily clouded, formed
a dark background for the white wings of tern
and sea-gulls  just lifted above the wild horizon ;

the soft south wind which blew in their faces,
brought with it a fresh scent of weed and seasons;
.and to Evelyn, who was susceptible to
such influences, no perfume had ever seemed so
fragrant, no scene so striking or romantic.

He spoke at last.

I could live and die here'' he exclaimed.
Kate, you are right. The crowded haunts of
men are a delusion and a snare. Nothing we
find there can compete with what Nature offers
us in a sight like this. Dear Kate, how shall I
thank you for bringing me such happiness ? I
owe you a debt of gratitude which I long to
repay." He bent over her as he spoke, and,
not until after a short pause, drew up his head
again.

When at length he did, it was seen that the
uncovered face beneath was crimson from brow
to lip. He had kissed her ; and confused and
agitated as she was by such a caress, she could
not at the moment know how to meet it.

Forgive me," said Evelyn, as though in
surprise. " I have offended you ? " (His tone
expressed, " But why should you be offended 1
It was surely a natural and simple thing to do.
No harm was meant")

Nevertheless, although comprehending what
was thus implied, she could only faintly stammer
a denial.

But why, then, did you blush so deeply ? "

'' I  I am not used to it''

' Never grow used to it then, Kate. Kisses
on a phlegmatic cheek are not worth a sou as
compared to one on this"  touching it again.
Now tell me," continued Evelyn, gaily, " was
not that a truly cool, condescending, fraternal
salute ? Am not I a model of the patronising
big brother ? Kind, benignant, and affectionate,
when he is in good-humour, and even willing to
be propitiated when he is lawfully irate 1 I
think you will give me a good character, Kate.
I think you will allow that I deserve your recommendation.
As long as you don't bother
me, and don't tell tales of me, and don't get in
my way, I am as nice and pleasant to you as
any man in my position can be to a troublesome
little sister whom every one else tries to get rid
of ; now, am I not ? "

They had reached the mouth of the cave ashe
spoke, taking refuge from a shower which
had been driving towards them before the wind,
and which was now drenching all the open

shore,  and as little as she regarded its noisy
clatter on the stones outside, did Kate regard his
words as he drew her into the sheltering cavern.
She could only feel the touch of his arm, which
continued to encircle her as they sat down, and
wonder how it spoke a language so different.

Well, what do you say ? " continued Evelyn.
Eh *? I'm afraid you don't look upon it in
that light ? ''

His only answer was an uneasy movement.

There is something going on within your
mind," pursued he, stooping forward to see all
he could, " which had best have vent, Kate. I
know the symptoms. Don't be afraid ; pluck up
spirit, and have it out. Come,' and he would
have embraced her a third time.

"No, don't," said Kate, angrily. "I don't
like it."

His arm dropped from her side.

And  and I won't suffer it," she continued,
with increased energy.

He sat mute.

** Rupert, how could you ? " broke forth the
speaker, passionately. '' You that I trusted,
and hoped so much from 1 You that seemed
to be the only friend I had left in the world !

You should not have treated me so. I am not
your sister  you are not my brother. Let me
alone."

"You are not my sister  I am not your
brother ; is that to be so 1 Finally ? "

'' Yes ; it is."

Then hear me," said Evelyn, his own colour
rising, and his tone changing  " Miss Newbattle,
hear me. Remember that such a position was
none of my seeking. It was offered to me, and
I accepted it. When first I saw you, Kate 
when first I knew who you were  I was well
enough satisfied to be given a brother s privileges,
and you were pleased that I should claim
them. You see that the idea is a farce now ?
So do I. I repudiate the position. You start ?
But I do. I declare to you that I would not
have you for my sister if I could. Be my wife,
or nothing."

He clasped her again in his arms, and kissed
her as often as he would.

The tide had receded a pace ere either spoke
again, and then it was but low ejaculations and
tender epithets which were murmured among
the echoes of the rocky canopy.

At length Evelyn raised his head and spoke
more briskly. " Your little plot that filled your
little imagination this morning must fall to the
ground, Kate ; the time has come for me to unfold
mine. It bears a curious resemblance to
yours, do you know '? In every point but one
the two are precisely similar. You propose to
remain here for a while ? I propose that you
should. You desire a companion ? I approve
of your having one. You wish for your sister ?
I offer  myself."

You, Rupert ? You 1 "

*' And why not 1 1 The teal and the woodcock
were not such first-rate considerations as
you profanely declared them, but still they may
come in handy. Maidie could not take you the
wanderings over moor and mountain that I shall
do. Nor would she learn to spin any more
deftly, Kate. Choose between us, then. Which
will you have '? "

It is a dream," said Kate, putting her hand
to her eyes,"  a dream. Talk to me, Eupert.
Tell me really what you mean. I cannot think
I cannot understand  will you stay here 1 
heres"

'even so, Kate. Here,  if you will have

me. And so you think it is a dream, do you 1
A dream that a very minor prophet might have
forecast, I should say. Who could meet you,
beautiful, lonely, nearly broken-hearted, without
longing to be your comforter '?  and as for you,
why, my poor child, you had no chance when I
was here without a rival, and with nobody to
warn you off the foolish, good-for-nothing fellows''
He smiled proudly.

*' And you will not go away again ? "
Not yet awhile, any way. Why, Kate,
what a life we shall lead down here, away
from all the world  nobody knowing, nobody
dreaming of our happiness ! I will take you
out on moonlight nights, my wild sea-mew,
when the waves are booming along the shore,
as they are doing now ; and we will take
boat with the fishermen,  yes, you shall go
in those very boats we saw last night, when
they don't go too far out,  and we will learn
their songs, Kate, and sing them to each other.
And I will tell you tales, my child, of the great
world that you have never seen ; and you shall
read to me your strange old poets, and rave as
you did on the moor last night. You shall read
Shakespeare too ; you shall be my Juliet,  my

Portia,  my Kate, whose Petruchio would not
have tamed her if he could ! Shall it be so,
then ? Speak, Kate  I can listen to you now ;
.take up the theme, dear, and let me hear what
you can say about it. Why are you so still ?
Have I frightened my darling ? Have I been
too quick, too hasty ? Forgive me, sweet ; I
will try to be more gentle. Is there more the
matter yet 1 What is it ? "

I do not  understand."

'' Let me teach you''

I cannot think ''

Let me think for you."

Is it '' She stopped afresh.

What a puzzled little face ! And I am not to
touch it ? Well, what is all this about ? Why
are those eyes turned on me so imploringly ? I
shall satisfy them, shall I not, Kate ? I am not
afraid. Speak on."

"It is all so strange."

Strange ? " repeated Evelyn, not flattered
by her timidity. " Strange ? Well, I daresay it
is. I have taken you rather by storm, have I
And you thought I was doing my best to get
you received back at Carnochan, you poor little
dupe. What should I want you back there for ?

We are far better off here. They don't want us,
and we don't want them, so everybody is satisfied
all round."

But we shall have to write, and oh, Eupert !
what shall we say 1 "

Time enough to think of that when we do
write," said Evelyn, lightly. " Sufficient unto
the day, you know : look here, little one, it
would be uncommonly disagreeable for both of
us to be hailed back to Carnochan just at present,
wouldn't it ? Well, if we have to begin at
the beginning, make our prosy explanations,
together with all the nuisance of confessing our
little fraud so far, that will be the inevitable
result; and, good Heavens, Kate, think of the
scenes that would follow ! You could not stand
them,  no more could I. The paternal blessing
on such occasions is bad enough, but the
maternal other thing, especially as coming from
Lady Olivia, would be a few degrees worse."

Would it ? She  she would not approve,
then?"

He laughed, looked into her eyes and laughed
again. " I thought you had been too clever for
such a question, Kate 1 "

Would she be very angry, Rupert 1 "

"Aye, that's better : I can answer you there.
Yes, my little innocent, I think I may venture
to say she would be very angry. So long as I
am not there to see, I don't find that that afflicts
me in any extraordinary manner. I think I
can survive the thought of her despair. How
shamefully she has used you, my poor little one,
leaving you here to fret and cry, while she
triumphs in your place ! Cheer up, Kate ! no
more tears ; we shall cheat them all."

Cheat ! " She repeated the word as though
it had struck her a blow.

While they think your existence is a burden
under the weight of their displeasure, and that
all the life and the spirit is getting crushed
out of this little heart by slow torture,  we, together,
shall be making merry at their expense !
We shall be laughing at them from our hiding-place
! Perhaps now and then I may go over
and see how they are getting on  walking in, as
it were, from far-off places, when we are actually
under their very noses all the time ! It would
be awkward if you were to be sent for ; but I
can take care to prevent that, I think. They
are off to Brighton for the present, and we can
invent excuses by-and-by. You must not write

too contentedly ; you must not let them see you
are too happy,  we must keep up the show of
dissatisfaction'

"And this is to go on' said Kate, slowly,
"for how long'

Why do you ask ? You are already afraid
of being tired of me '? The prospect wearies
you ? " He paused for a disclaimer.

None came.

Is that it, Kate ? Can that be it ? I hardly
expected "

No, Rupert ; that is not it ; but  but it is
so hard to explain. If it were only for a week
or so, and we were to tell them everything afterwards
"

"My dear girl!"

The longer we keep back the truth the more
difficult we make it to be open when the time
comes," said Kate, with a touch of the old imperiousness
Carnochan knew so well. " Why
should we not be honest from the beginning ? "

Because we have not been honest from the
beginning ; and what's past can't be undone.
Aha, Madam Kate ! I had you there."

She was silent.

"Don't you see," continued Evelyn, rather

hurriedly,  " don't you see, dear, the only course
that is now left open to us ? We must meet at
Carnochan  when you do return there,  we
must meet, as it were, for the first time. We
shall be presented to each other in due form ;
and our acquaintance will subsequently ripen,
after a proper and discreet fashion. At first it
will be advisable to be rather shy and formal, 
reserved,  no, distant  that is the word. In
short, you may behave precisely as you once
did, and as you would do still, were we to meet
as strangers. Both of us will require all the
presence of mind and ready wit we conjointly
possess, remember ; but I think we shall manage
somehow : I think I can trust my little fellow-conspirator.
Then, by-and-by, the constraint
between us may wear off by slow degrees, and
we may begin to be friendly. Why do you
look at me so, Kate ? Never do you fear but
what I shall find plenty of opportunities for
throwing off the mask,  trust me for that. I
think I can call to mind already more than one
hide-and-seek corner that will answer our purpose.
And the beauty of the whole thing is,
that*we need never to the last day of our lives
make an awkward disclosure. In due time I

shall apply to your father, and after that all will
go on as it always does, I suppose. At least, our
little romance will remain our own."

And you would play a part like that ? " said
Kate, in a low, unnatural voice ; " and you
would have me play it too ? "

'' And who could play it better 1 You have
quite the talent. I am not afraid for you. I
think I see you when some unlucky allusion is
made. You will throw it aside so deftly, that
I shall scarcely be able to refrain from a smile
of approval. I shall not be half so smart myself,
I fear ; but I will do my best."

Everything I did would be a deception, and
every word I spoke a lie "

"Hut-tut ; that's strong language. I shall think
that I have got ' Naughty Kate ' back again ! "

"I am to act one perpetual falsehood,  and
that not only here but there. There," said Kate
with growing excitement in her voice and manner,
 "there, where they all know how I have
begged for truth,  how I would not allow the
little ones to quibble and palter as Alice would
have taught them to do,  there I am to go about
among them, myself the falsest thing about the
place ! Even if we were never found out, we

should be in constant fear of detection. Any
moment something might happen "

No, no ; we shall take care to prevent that."
" Could I ever look my father or sisters in the
face "'

Oh yes ; after a while  perfectly well."

"My own dead mother "

Dear Kate, she "

"And the end and object of all this," proceeded
Kate, unheeding, "what a mean and
cowardly one it is ! We are to flinch from a
momentary disagreeable at the expense of our
honour ! Think, Eupert, how foolish, how
blind ;  a mere momentary disagreeable ! "

All very fine. Yes, my dear Kate, you lay
a most excellently scornful accent on the words ;
but ' a mere momentary disagreeable ' sounds a
thousand times less charming from Lady Olivia's
lips than from yours ; I can assure you of that,
from the experience of a lifetime. Such 'momentary
disagreeable ' have a trick of lengthening
out ad infinitum on these occasions. I
know what it would be."

"And to escape it you would degrade us
both? Whatever you dread, it could not be
so bad as that ? "

Dread 1 Nonsense. That is, you really
do not know what you are talking about, you
silly child, and need some one to take you in
hand. Come, don't pout; I see I shall have
to lecture you again, as I did last time I was
at the farm. I thought I had brought you
fairly well into subjection on that occasion,
but you are a tough little customer. Why, I
declare, she's in the pet already ! "

It was the last thing he ought to have said.

That is enough ; that will do," cried Kate,
passionately. " I see we shall never understand
each other. Is this the happiness you promised
me ? I thank you, Rupert, but it  it-" struggling
for composure,  it is not such as I care to
possess. Is this what is to make me forget the
past ? The past would haunt me day and night.
Don't speak to me, don't touch me,  I will never
listen to you again."

Kate ! My child ! " His tone changed to
one of tender remonstrance.

I am not your child. Take away your
hand. Oh, how could this hand deal me such
misery ! "

'' Kate, Kate, what are you saying ? "

"That which I will never unsay. I have

been deceived in you,  in you who seemed tome
so good, so noble. You made me love you,
I did not want to love you. You found
me out,  I never asked you to come. And I
thought, I thought  but it does not matter;
I see it all now ; I am blind no longer. God
forgive you, Rupert, for all this ! "

My darling ! "

Hush !  not now. I am nothing to you
now. You renounced me as a sister, and I will
not be your wife."

'' You will, Kate, when you hear me "

And therefore I will not hear you," said
she, springing to her feet. "Let me go. Weare
only wasting time now ; let me go, Eupert."

(" Well," thought Evelyn, " here is an ado !
Who would have thought that her devil of a
temper would have stepped in in this way ? It's
ridiculous. I shan't give in ; so she must ; and
that's all about it") *' I should not have supposed
you were a person to be tormented by
an over-scrupulous conscience," he could not
resist saying at last : ' leave that for others,
Kate ; it is not for you."

The emphasis on the " you," slight though it
was, was too much. It stung the high-souled

VOL. I. S

girl to the quick. ** What !" she cried out ; '' you
mean that I am already undutiful and miserable
enough ? That I am ready enough to
yield to temptation of any kind, be it what it
may ? That I have been turned away from
my father's doors because I was a disgrace and
a trouble to them ? And you thought that I
whom you yourself reproached for my evil
passions and temper  was ripe for any revenge '?
Was that what you meant, Eupert ? Oh, Ku-pert,
did you really mean that ? " she sobbed
aloud.

' I scarcely know what I mean, Kate. You
will not attend to what I say '*

'' No, I will not."

And you are transported out of yourself,
by giving way to these ungovernable fancies.
You are not in a fit state to consider any question
calmly ; believe me, you are not. You
yourself acknowledge that your  your excitable
temperament is apt to mislead you. It
never did so more than in the present instance.
Then why will you not put yourself in my
hands -? "

Eupert, I fear God. I have disobeyed Him,
dishonoured Him, rebelled against Him, and

forsaken Him  but still I am His. ' I will arise
and go to my Father, and will say unto Him,
Father, I have sinned against Heaven, and
before Thee, and am no more worthy  no

more worthy ' '' her voice was lost in

weeping.

No other sound broke the silence of the cave ;
for Evelyn, awed by the extent of the emotions
he had himself awakened, and hopeless of regaining
the ascendancy he had lost during the
first half-hour, was now gloomily silent, whilst
debating what course he should next pursue.

It was still raining heavily without ; but Kate,
apparently without being aware of what she
was doing, presently began to move towards
the entrance of the cave, as though intending:
to escape from the presence of her companion.

Common humanity prompted him to call her
back, especially as the shawl, which had slipped
from her shoulders as she broke from, his hold,
remained on the ground; and the thin cotton
frock, which had been a part of her wardrobe
on coming to the farm in all the mildness of
the late summer, was but a poor protection
against a smart autumnal shower.

His summons, however, had no effect. It

was either unheard or disregarded ; and he was
obliged to follow ignominiously, and seek to
detain the fugitive by other means.

She thrust him aside.

The manner of her doing so was such, that
even his patience gave way at last, and he
frowned contemptuously. "Don't be foolish.
You need not be afraid that I shall transgress
again. You may permit me to put a covering
on you. Miss Newbattle, without feeling anxiety.
I have only one thing to say, and that is, that
I presume even your candour will hardly think
it necessary to inform your parent and mine of
this piece of folly ? It would not be pleasant
for either of us,  probably you will not regard
that,  but still, as a personal favour to me, 
for their sakes,  or on any other grounds you
like to consider worthy,  I must beg that if
you can keep the secret, you will."

'' I will."

What is the matter 1 You are ill '? " cried
Evelyn, struck by her tone. "Good heavens,
what a brute I am ! Kate, I did not mean it,
I did not know what I was saying. Kate, dear
Kate, forgive me,  speak to me. God ! what
have I done '? "

The cheek which had approached hers, as his
terrified senses became aware of something
strangely, dreadfully wrong, was all at once
wetted by something warm,  it was blood,
which was flowing from a broken vessel.

CHAPTER XIII.

WOULD IT EVER END

Come what, come may,
Time and the hour runs through the roughest day."

Macbeth.

Of all that followed that terrible revelation
Evelyn could never think in after years without
a shudder.

He was, as we have said, by nature benevolent
 nay more, he was the last person in the
world to behold suffering with indifference ; and
to have thus, by his own thoughtlessness, wantonly
endangered the life of a young and beautiful
girl, to all of whose attractions he was
keenly alive, and who had returned his affection

with an ardour which it had needed greater
strength than she possessed to expel from her
bosom, filled him with a distress which knew
no bounds.

For some minutes he hung over her in speechless
agony, expecting every moment to feel the
quivering form he held relax, and the heart
cease to beat ; but although with closed eyes
she lay powerless and terrified in his arms,
respiration and consciousness remained.

The dark stream, however, which oozed without
intermission from between her parted lips,
might increase and strangle, were she once to
swoon away. He saw the danger, kept her
head well up, supported her back, and looked
round in despairing quest of assistance.

Unhappily it was next to impossible that anyone
should go by that way ; and even should so
unlikely an event come to pass, there remained
the probability, which was, alas ! well nigh a certainty,
that he and his helpless burden must
still be unperceived from the cliffs above. A
short time before, he had noted all this, had
exulted in the loneliness of the spot, and in the
charm of such a scene for disclosing his love ;
now he would have given all he possessed for

the hope of being overheard. Twice he raised
his voice vainly, then with a sickening sense of
further effort of the kind being useless, held
his peace, and strove to gather together his
energies to meet the desperate emergency.

A sea-bird jabbered overhead : he looked up
at it with interest ; his senses seemed numb.

How should he and Kate ever, unaided,
regain the haunts of men ?

Whither should he turn, even should he
succeed in carrying the unhappy girl, a dead-weight
in his arms, across the barren headland
? No cottage nor hut was near. He
thought he could be sure that no habitation
of any kind had been passed by him and his
companion on their way to the cave; and he
now recollected, with an additional pang, that
the path they had traversed then, had been
felt the want of by the inhabitants of the district,
on account of the road being farther away
from the shore at that part than was usually
the case. It ran through the hills for a mile
or two ; and the path  a mere rough, grass-grown
track  had been made for the country
people, who used it as a short cut across the
projecting piece of land.

Where the road was,  how near, or how faraway,
 he knew not.

It was obvious, however, that something must
be done, and that speedily. The rain had cleared
off, but still the short November day would
ere long draw to a close, and there was nothing
to be gained by delay. He durst not leave her
under shelter of the cave while he went in search
of assistance, lest haply he might find her dead
on his return ; and to remain in a state of inaction
when every moment was precious, was sheer
pusillanimity.

He rose to his feet, and lifted her in his arms.

Slender though she was, when he came to
raise the light figure wholly from the ground, his
courage sank at the recollection of the distance
he should have to traverse.

Fright, joined to other emotions, rendered the
hapless Kate absolutely powerless ; and though
she retained just sufficient knowledge of what
passed to be aware that her companion was
bearing her up the cliffs, and even to know why
he paused when unfastening the gate through
which they must pass into the fields above, she
was beyond making any opposition to his will,
or any exertions on her own behalf.

Indeed she, as well as Evelyn, believed her
injury to be fatal; and whilst resigning her
mortal frame to his trembling clasp, the poor
stricken child was endeavouring inwardly to
collect her thoughts, and commit her soul to
the keeping of her Heavenly Father.

Very slowly and painfully Evelyn made his
way along.

On looking back upon that dreadful hour, he
could recall every little incident,  every obstruction
which dismayed him,  every halt which
delayed,  every turn or winding which gave
food for a momentary hope.

With what an anguish of impatience his eyeballs
searched the empty landscape !

Not a human being anywhere.

The sweat broke from his throbbing brow,
and his muscles grew rigid and stiff under the
unceasing strain ; but he set his teeth, and
would neither stand still nor sit down to rest.

Was ever one little mile of a length so infernal
? Would it ever end '? Would he be
able to hold out till it did?

From the first she had remained absolutely
motionless, only settling down more and more
heavily in his arms at every step he took ; and

the dark wet streak which trickled down his
shoulder, beneath the place where the head
hung over, spread and deepened.

Then the rain came on again, and maddened
him.

He could not shield her ; and in the blinding
shower he could scarcely see where to tread, or
how to pick his way. A squall of wind which
had also crossed the sea, and now confronted
him, blew the cold drops into his eyes, and he
had no hand free to clear them away. His hat
flew off, and he had to let it go.

He could, however, see the road at last, and
in that vision there was a ray of comfort. It
was something to feel that he had from the
first taken the right turn ; and although, when
reached, no dwellings were even then visible
along its straightforward course, which could
be traced for a considerable distance on either
side, he would not allow himself to dwell on the
fresh disappointment. It was one, but he tried
not to think it so.

A dark object, which might be a man or
woman, moved beneath a clump of trees by the
wayside, some quarter of a mile in front. Hope
revived. He took that direction, and struggled

manfully forward, raising his eyes now and
again to assure himself, as well as could be done
through a veil of mist, that he had not been
mistaken and deluded by a rock or overhanging
bough. He thought not, and the event proved
him right. The object or objects  for it seemed
there were several  were plainly not inanimate.
They parted to one side and another, some
cowering further beneath the welcome shelter,
others betaking themselves to the side of the
stone wall which ran parallel to the road. He
conjectured that they would resolve themselves
into a group of labouring men who had-not
cared for a wetting, and who had been working
in the open fields close by. The presence of so
many was doubly reassuring, since it indicated
the proximity of a village, or at all events of a
farm with attendant cottages. Turning over in
his mind the various modes of obtaining speedy
medical aid, and confident of enlisting in his
service the group who were now within a few
hundred yards, Evelyn disdained to consider
the fatigue he had already undergone, and even
endeavoured, in spite of the elements, to assume
an easy walk as he approached the thicket.
He rather wondered that his approach excited

SO little curiosity. He expected every moment
that the party would run out to see what was
the matter ; and his temper suffered a little as
nearer and nearer he drew,- and still no voice
hailed him. He thought that if any of them
had been in his place, had carried a freight as
helpless and as heavy Ha!  All was explained.
It was but a herd of dumb animals
from whom he had been expecting sympathy
and amazement. Half-a-dozen black cattle, indistinctly
perceived through the brushwood, had
deceived him.

Something like a sob stuck in Evelyn's throat.

Overhead the clouds continued to empty
themselves pitilessly, and to his excited fancy
the form he held grew to be swathed in a
clinging, dripping shroud.

She shivered, and his pulses stood still. Was
that tremor the passing of the spirit *? 'Was ita
dead woman whom he would have to show as
the victim of a foolish hour ?

Thank God, no ! Her breath still fluttered
upon his cheek as he bent it towards her ; and
a low moan, which sank away into a sigh, gave
further assurance to his dizzy brain and ringing
ear that she was yet alive.

But, that ascertained, he durst not pause a
moment longer. His limbs must not give way,
when weakness at such a time might be rued forever,
and when  horrible reflection 1  the distance
he had already gone might prove to be nothing
compared with that which he had yet to go.

Another turning, and another empty waste of
moorland.

At length, and truth to tell, just when Evelyn
could have endured little more, he heard the
sound of wheels on the road behind, and a light
gig, driven by a solitary occupant, pulled up at
once on overtaking wayfarers too evidently in
need of assistance. They were at once taken
on, and informed that within a mile  a distance
that was nothing to the speaker, but which even
now could scarcely he heard of by the exhausted
and anguished Evelyn without dismay,  within
a mile, they would find the house of Mr Brewster's
farm-bailiff, or " grieve," as the term is, a married
man, whose wife, a sensible middle-aged person,
was to be depended on for rendering the young
lady every service. Accordingly, into the hands
of this worthy he had ere long the wretched satisfaction
of resigning his charge; but unable, when
the time came, to analyse his tortured feelings,

it seemed as if that moment of renunciation set
the seal upon all his misery.

Until then he had had her to himself,  now she
was in the care of others. They had taken her
from him. It was their part, not his, to watch
over that colourless cheek, that dim and clouded
eye ; theirs to note each little point for hope to
work upon  or otherwise.

The busy, important face of the grieve's wife
was inexpressibly distasteful.

She would tell him nothing, made out that
she knew nothing, and shook her head whenever
he addressed her.

But at least he could fetch the doctor, he said.

Atween,"  the head was shaken as usual, 
"atween, sir, ye may try. Ye can speer after
him, ony gait. But he's no' like to be at hame ;
he seldom is at hame i' the daytime. It'll be
pit mirk 'ore ye get to the hoofs forbye."

'' Can't I ride *? Haven't you a horse '? "

Ou aye, sir, we've a horse, nae coot "

"Well. Can't I have it r'

'* Gin ye wull, sir ; but it's a lang ride, and

maybe there'll be little use " He swore

under his breath, and ran for the horse.

Kate was not in such danger as they all
imagined. Her system had had a shock, and
the circumstances under which it had been
received were seriously against her ; but whilst
Evelyn  who remained, as long as he could with
decency do so, at the Muirland Farm  scarce
dared ask each day how the patient was, for fear
of the answer he might receive, he had in reality
no need to have been so terror-stricken.

Even the doctor at length pronounced that
Miss , Newbattle was doing well ; and, at the
expiration of a fortnight, she was brought
over to the Farm, one fine mild afternoon, to
be nursed back to health and strength under
the tender care of wise old Dame Comline.
Before this event occurred, however, Evelyn
had left the neighbourhood. Assured of there
being no danger now apprehended, he had seen
that the only thing for him to do, both for Kate's
sake and his own, was to quit the field for the
present. Her recovery must of necessity be
slow ; and although all resentment was now at
an end  insomuch, indeed, that grief and love
had begotten a new resolution in his breast  he
felt that he had nothing to do at present but to
wait.

To have remained hanging aimlessly about in
the vicinity, would not only have occasioned
remark which might have led to unpleasantness,
but would only too probably have hindered
the very end which it was his object to
promote. He must not a second time have
to feel that he had harmed the girl he loved ;
and deeply moved as he was by all that had
passed, he was now only anxious to do the
right thing  act as it behoved him.

Again and again he asked himself what he
had been thinking of to bring about such a
situation, and it seemed as if he could obtain
no explanation of his late behaviour that was
worth the having.

He had nothing to say for himself; he had
given way to a mere whim of the moment, to
an impulse arising out of the desire to avoid a
family scene,  such a scene as might be anticipated,
should all come out, and Miss Newbattle's
hand be formally demanded of her father. He
had been fascinated by the young beauty ; one
thing had led to another, and he had found it
easier to submit than to struggle ;  but the
idea of putting an abrupt end to all the romantic
delights which had cast such a glamour over

the Muirland Farm, and of going back to Car-nolan
to raise a commotion and bewilderment
there, was so unpleasing to one who had
never voluntarily done a disagreeable thing in
his life, that he had been fain to look about
for some , loophole through which he might
escape from the dilemma. Kate  beautiful,
bewitching Kate  he must have ; and the prospect
of having her without being badgered
and baited, wept over and wondered at, was
enchanting. He had called it a glorious notion,
and had never given the matter a second
thought, except in so far as to deliberate on
the means by which he might bring it to
pass.

But how miserably the whole had ended !

He had almost hated her when she had turned
from him, putting out her hands to keep him off
her, as she left the cave ; he had felt ready to
die for her the next minute when he knelt on
the ground by her side.

And now that he could no longer see her,
hear her, nor even reside under the same roof,
he cursed his late folly with a bitterness that
knew no consolation ; and a deliberate purpose
probably the first he had ever formed  took

up its place within his subdued and heavy
heart.

There was nothing that he could now do for
his love,  and nothing that he would not have
done.

Alas that his silly pride, which had never
troubled him in his life before, should have been
so wantonly officious at a moment when everything
was hanging in the balance ! A whisper
of renunciation, a penitent look, had been all
that was needed. He knew Kate ; he had seen
her fiery and indignant before, and he had seen
her more dangerously cold and sullen. But he
had never failed to win those lovely features
back to smiles or tears, or both ; and was it
likely that he should have been less successful
on an occasion which was all in all to
her, than on others ?

He ground his teeth to think how like an
idiot he had acted. He had been blind, besotted,
mad. He had seen a girlish creature,  a frail
thing,  a trembling, sobbing, loving woman, 
and had disdained to mark the flashing eye
and stormy blood which might have warned
him to beware.

Had he only recognised in time the certainty

that he could not shake her resolution, he could
he felt sure he could  have himself yielded,
and have brought her then and there to his
arms, melted and all-forgiving.

But he had been incredulous. He had not
been able to believe in such obstinacy; and even
up to within the last few minutes of the interview
he had not despaired. He had been absolutely
unable not to hope. It had been an experience so
novel, so extraordinary, that it had not been until
she had turned her back upon him and had left
the cave, that he had believed in his ill-fortune.

At every solitary moment there rose now
before him a vision of her beautiful agonised
countenance, as she bent on him the reproachful
gaze which accompanied her "Oh, Rupert,
did you really mean that '? " in answer to the
taunting words wherewith he had sought to
bring her own position and its cause to her
memory. With shuddering self-disgust he recalled
that cruel " you" and the quickness with
which its meaning had been apprehended. Then,
he had seen the anguished shade pass over her
soft young brow; and it afforded little consolation
now to recollect that he had striven
to repair the mischief when too late.

VOL. II. B

She had listened to no more ; she had silenced
him  waved him from her side ; and she had
preferred to face the angry elements to remaining
longer in his presence. She could have
chosen no surer method of riveting her image
in his memory.

But love, sorrow, and repentance were now
alike of none avail, since life and death  or so at
least all believed  were trembling in the scales ;
and aware, as Evelyn alone was, of all that had
preceded and been the cause of the unhappy
girl's illness, he could not but acquiesce with
readiness in the restrictions imposed by the
doctor and nurse; and not merely this, but
also mentally add to them others, the necessity
for which he only could perceive.

He forbade all who were in attendance on the
sickbed to question the patient as to anything
connected with her seizure, giving for the prohibition
such reasons as amply satisfied the
Comlines ; and further, aware that his remaining
in the neighbourhood would in itself be an
agitation and disturbing reflection, should the
knowledge of his having done so come to her
ears, he departed of his own free will.

A few enigmatical sentences, a momentary

emotion at the last, he was betrayed into ; but
on the whole he went through the ordeal bravely,
and got off unsuspected, in the exchange of cheery
farewells and hopes of future meetings ; and it
was not until he passed on his way the lonely
house by the roadside, within whose walls poor
Kate still lay feeble and forlorn, that he pulled
his cap over his eyes.

Chapter Xii.

A CONFESSION, AND A COMFORTER.

Now I feel I can love but one, and that one has deserted me."

Melmoth.
Bide a bit."  Scotch Proverb.

If, previous to his departure, any fears had been
entertained by Evelyn lest one of the other Miss
Newbattles or even Lady Olivia herself, might
have been sufficiently alarmed by the communication
received from the guardians of the disgraced
daughter and sister, as to hasten to the
Muirland Farm in person, these were needless.

To be sure, they were all concerned about
Kate,  as much concerned as they could be
expected to be about a member of the family
who was always in trouble one way or another,
and who really might have managed to keep
out of mischief, in a place where she could see
nobody and go nowhere.

It appeared as if she never would learn sense.
And the Comlines too, to whom she had been
entrusted  how tiresome of them not to stop
her pursuing those wild ways which Alice had
pronounced to be so unladylike, and from which
Lady Olivia had done her best to turn her refractory
young charge. The idea of letting a delicate
girl take long rough walks in such weather !
Any one could have foreseen what the end would
be  no constitution could stand it.

They were very sorry, of course. It was poor
Kate's own fault,  but still they were very sorry.
Lady Olivia sharply taxed her eldest step-daughter
with want of feeling when the usual singing-lesson
was gone through with Mademoiselle on
the morning after the news came ; while Alice
and Bertha, in their turn, sneered at the prodigious
correspondence which issued from the
boudoir. They said to each other that they
knew what that meant. Any one could have
told, that just at this time of year, when nothing
was going on worth recording at home, and
when no news was stirring abroad, an event so
thrilling as the sudden and dangerous illness
of one of her dear Mr Newbattle's dear daughters
was a perfect godsend to Lady Olivia.

Full particulars of her anxiety and distress
were given, no doubt, in every perfumed sheet ;
and they smiled to each other as they caught
the trail of her eloquent pen in the effusive
utterances which were for Mademoiselle's benefit
at luncheon, and in Mrs Popham's cross-examination
of the next person she met after
their step-mother had left. Mrs Popham clearly
wished to know how much to weed out, and
what might hold good, of the communications
received from headquarters. Everybody liked
to stand well with Mrs Popham, who was a
great woman in her way,  great enough to take
under her protection the black sheep of any
fold. In utter disregard of Lady Olivia's dislike
to the subject, she had sturdily inquired
after Kate on every opportunity after Kate's
dismissal, and had not failed after a time to
add to her " And how is my friend Kate V the
And when is she coming back V which should,
if possible, shame them into sending for her.

Now all was smooth again in that quarter ;
and Mrs Popham, who had been rather shunned
of late, was told the whole truth  that is to
say, Lady Olivia's whole truth. It should not
be concealed longer, she said, from such an

old and valued friend of the family, that the
poor dear absentee had been for some little time
in an anxious state of health,  not ill, not even
ailing, but still not herself To this, there was
not the smallest doubt, was attributable that
irritation of the nervous system from which
they had all suffered at Carnochan. They had
suffered, every one of them ; and in order to
effect a diversion, and see what a change of air
and scene would do,  together with a little bread
and water of affliction, she mentally added, 
they had sent dear Kate, as Mrs Popham knew,
to the seaside. No one could understand the
poor child's terrible temper : so uncertain, so
peculiar as it had been,  Mrs Popham might
perhaps have heard hints, since such things do
come round through servants and tradespeople ;
so she thought that now,  now when the whole
was comprehensible, when Kate had broken
down altogether,  it was only right to say a
word.

Sea-air and quiet had been, as they believed,
doing their full amount of good,  her step-daughter
had been with the children's nursery-governess,
the one they had before Mademoiselle
Pierrepoint, a most wonderfully kind and attentive

person, quite homely, but so trustworthy
and dependable,  and they had had such nice
letters of late, so much happier and brighter, that
they had been looking forward to receiving the
dear child back at home almost immediately 
when all at once came the sad intelligence.

It was most disappointing, most heartrending.

Their dear mother had, as Mrs Popham knew,
been a great sufferer, and some delicacy of constitution,
she feared, it seemed to be only too
probable, her daughters had inherited ; but of
course  and a great point was made of this  Mrs
Popham would consider the whole communication
strictly confidential, for herself alone.

(It would be ruin to have it get abroad that
they were a sickly set, thought Lady Olivia.)

She felt, and with reason, that her auditor
was to be relied upon. Mrs Popham was well
aware that she must accept such golden truths
as Lady Olivia chose to communicate, tempered
with alloy, and that the beaten track of fact
would be left at every turn, for side paths of
sentiment ; but she accepted what she could
get, heard without a smile of Mr Newbattle's
pangs, and let pass without a sarcasm Lady
Olivia s own.

There she goes to her Mrs Popham again,"
exclaimed Alice one day, as she and Bertha
watched the carriage roll off Popham wards for
the third time that week. " Mrs Popham must
think her mad. The way Lady Olivia monopolises
our friend is really absurd. Sits up beside
her, and speaks to no one else, whenever Mrs Pop-ham
comes here ; and drives away there by herself
whenever she gets the chance. Kate's illness
has been a piece of luck to her : she was not in
Mrs Popham's good books lately, I am sure,
Bertha,  I suspect about this very affair of Kate,
so now she is putting all straight. She has
gone to talk of the ' poor sufferer,' and the ' poor
lonely one,' you know ; she will make out that
Kate has been in danger of breaking blood-vessels
all her life ! Bertha, did you see how
she appropriated that letter this morning, and
fussed over it  begging whoever was reading
it to return it, as soon as done with, to her, 
Miss Comline's letter, I mean ? That was because
it is to be shown all round,  to Mrs Pop-ham
first, then to the Maclures, and so on,
round the neighbourhood. Even Mr Maxwell,
whom she is not over civil to at other times,
will be favoured with a view. Oh, our dear

step-mother's prestige will not suffer by the
affair, you may depend upon it." . . . .

' A very nice account," pronounced Mrs Pop-ham,
to whom, as divined, was submitted the
primary perusal ; '' and it must be a comfort to
you all to know that the invalid is in such excellent
quarters. I suppose by this time you
would be permitted to see her?"

'' My dear Mrs Popham, I should not think
of asking it ! I know too well. Absolute quiet
is as essential after an attack of this nature as
the most skilful treatment. Mr Newbattle says
he would not have her disturbed for the world."

"Not even by Alice?"

Alice had been over at Dulness the day
before, and had confided in her dear Mrs Pop-ham
that she was most anxious to go, but
could not obtain permission.

Alice would really have liked the job.

If the sick girl would have turned to her at
this time, depended on her, refused all other
attendance, and begged to have her pillows
smoothed by no other hand, Alice would have
done her part well, and enjoyed the position.

But Kate, who had never seen in her sister
anything to inspire such tenderness as could

alone have justified her in making such a stipulation,
SO far from desiring the presence of any
of her own family, seemed, in her weak and
nerveless condition, to be more afraid of their
proposing to come to her than of anything else
they could have suggested.

Accordingly, the message which Alice had
half expected never came ; and although she
averred to Mrs Popham that want of her father s
consent alone prevented her setting forth, she
took but scanty measures to obtain it.

Kate was left in peace.

She clung to the motherly dame, who seldom
left the sick-chamber, with the dependence of a
helpless babe,  " amaist full - like," said the
much-affected Mr Comline, with the tears in his
eyes : there was no indifference, no self-absorption
now; and as soon as sufficient strength
returned to enable her to become aware of the
demands her state made on the time, care, and
watchfulness of one and all, it was appreciated
so earnestly and deeply, that all former
arrears were well repaid in the outburst of her
gratitude.

*' Dear Mrs Comline, how good you are, how
much I love you ! " would spring spontaneously

from her lips from time to time ; and was, we
may be sure, very cleliglitfu] to the nurse's ear.

Presently it became, ' How often I have
vexed and grieved you with my ill-humour and
peevishness, and how patiently you have always
borne with me I I have never had a cross word
nor look from any one of you ; and I  oh, how
I have deserved it ! How I must have tried
you ! Yes ; don't say I didn't, dear granny " 
for such was the affectionate title now bestowed
"because you, as well as I, know better."
And she would weep pitifully.

But when am I to get well ? " she asked one
day. "I don't want to be well for my own
sake ; I am quite content to lie here in this little
white bed, with all my pretty things about me,
and that beautiful sea to look out upon, and
the sunsets to watch for every evening,  but I
know you will all like to have me down-stairs
again. You are trotting up and down this little
staircase all day long now, granny ; I am more
troublesome one way and another than when
I was very ill, am I not 1 Never mind, I am
getting strong fast ; I shall soon be fit to comedown.
And I am not going to sit and sulk
in the chimney-corner as I used to do, naughty

girl that I was. I mean to be so diligent and
useful. As long as I am allowed to stay here,
I intend to knit, to sew, and to read aloud to
you all. Oh, dear granny, I don t want to go
away for a long time yet. I am going to be so
industrious that you will quite miss me when I
am gone. No, I am not going to speak about
gone.' I have leave to stay, and you are willing
to keep me, and that's enough. Won't you
give me things to do ? I am longing to show
you how busy I can be."

That ye will,  that ye will, my bairn. No'
to talk sae muckle, ye ken," in a tender tone of
reproof, as to an infant. '' We'll hae the doctor
at us if we cinna mind what we're about. Oo
ay, ye'll knit an' yell spin "

 Spin ! Oh no "

An' what for no' 1 'Deed ye could sit upto
guide the wheel a while yet ; but bide a wee,
and we'll see ye faith lathe an' hearty, wi' the
Lord's blessing'. Eh, my dear, I ne'er cast my
ere upon your wheel tannin' there, dumb an'
still, in its neck, but what I mind on the
Captain "

''Not now," said Kate, gently. "I don't
want to 'mind' about any one now. I mean

just to lie still and rest. I only spoke about
myself because I wanted you, and Lizzie, and
kind Mr Comline, to know how very, very sorry

I was "

Noo, noo ; whisht, my lambie, whisht "

"You offered me a home when my own
father " She stopped anew, with trembling
lip.

Whisht noo, my bairn," reiterated the nurse,
authoritatively. "This is no' the time to be
speaking' o' your father. He kenned his ain
business, nae coot, an' it's no' for us to judge.
An' a's right noo, whatever may ha' been wrong,
that's ae thing. But as for the gudeman, an'
Lizzie, an' me, forbye Captain Evelyn "

Again that low sound from the pillows. But
the old woman had made up her mind to speak.
He bided lang about the place. Miss Kate,  he
did indeed. He diana neglect you, as I fear
ye mistook he did ; an' sir, sir hearted he
was, as a'body could see. But, my bairn, there
wad hae been a wheen idle clashes an heed-waggon'
frae train and thither wha hae been
about the place, an he had been here yet ; an'
ye ken, ye were no' to see greens, nor nobody.
He bit to gang."

*' Oh yes, oh yes  of course. Why do you
tell me that *? " said Kate. " Of course he had
to go. Why should he stay ? He had had
trouble enough with me as it was."

"Trouble enow'? Fse warrant he thochtna
that. Trouble 1 Ay, he had faith cool an'
trouble in plenty, when he feared,  but nae
matter, nae matter. I was only fain that ye
sold ken, my dear, that ye were no' neglect :
I thocht maybe "

Did he tell you how it happened ? ''

"Ay, ay, an' a'. Ye were down at ween the
laughs at the cave, an' ye had faun to talking',
an' bided lang; an' syne ye rose to gang your
ways, an' a' in a cliff ye stood still in a dally
like, an' made neither cry nor moan, but
just fell back i' his arms ! "  wiping her eyes.
The pair bit thing ! to be then like that !
And he had to trail ye a' the road to Garstang,
think o' yon !  an' an even-dounpoor overhead
! Ane wad hae thocht ye wad hae had
your north o' could, an' ye had it frae nathan'
else ! Was me ! The Lord be praised that
ye're alive this day."

'' Did he say "

Nae mair, nae mair. He teller us, though 

the gudeman an' me  what he had delft yourself;
though we kenned na that he had  that
he was here o' his ain free will, nobody kennin',
and that nobody bit to ken, forbye. Eh, we was
sounded ! It was a' dune for the best. Missy,
Si foot o' the kindness o' his heart ; though it
died us faith a dinge to hear it ! Weel, he
was a weel-meaning callant ; but the sparkle was
over sir set for the likes o' him to unread it.
The work was over muckle for him. The Lord
wad tak it in's ain Hands, wi'oot other folks
meddling ; for ye ken, my dear'' added the
good soul, pensively, " o' Him, an' through
Him, an' to Him are a' things."

A few tears lay on the pale face that watched
her while she spoke.

Yes," said the invalid, after a while. " You
are right, granny; the work was too hard for
him, and he did not set about in the way he
should have done. If he had told me at the
first that he had concealed from them his
coming "

"Eh, my dear, what's that ye're say in' ? He
diana tell ye ? Ye diana ken ? But he said ye
kenned "

Yes, yes, I knew," said Kate, with a deep

blush  " I knew  when too late. Had I sooner

suspected the truth but it does not matter

now ; neither he nor I can undo the past, and

I will not blame him, when I too  I too "

she stopped, much agitated.

Ahem ! " said Mrs Comline, softly. " But
what set him to be sae sly, I canna see. He
had name to fear, I trow. And he teller ye
nathan' till ? " interrogatively.

Till the evening before he left us for the
second time. He went back to Carnochan, you
remember,"  and the speaker raised herself on
her elbow as she spoke, while the tone of her
"you remember" showed too plainly that she
at least could never forget. " You remember,
don't you, that we had arranged for another
day's fishing, and it had to be given up because
Eupert thought he had better not stay ? That
was because I sent him away. I would not
keep him here, as soon as I found that he had
come to us secretly. I had been so pleased
to think he had braved them all for my sake,
and that they could not stop him,  and that
though they might punish me, he could set
every one at defiance. Oh, you don't know
how disappointed I was to find that he had

VOL. II. c

invented excuses, and made up a story to satisfy
Lady Olivia, and that he had never said
one word about me, to her or to any one ! "

'rand sae ye sold ha' been. The truth bit
aye. to be spoken "

"Yes, yes," impatiently. "Yes, of course,"
sighed the sick girl, more gently, a minute
afterwards. " But don't you see, dear granny,
that it was a difficult truth to speak ; and
Rupert cannot bear to give any one pain.
Directly I spoke to him, he promised to do
what I required, and you know he did. He
set off at once  the very next morning."

But he did nae mair."

No, he did no more. And when he came
back, and told me that he had done no more,
what did I say to him ? Did I reproach him ?
Did I turn away from him ? I tried," continued
Kate, as though to herself,  " I tried
to chide, and I could only smile. To have him
back again,  that was all I cared for. When
he took my hand, and told me that he had
disobeyed my wishes,  that he had not had the
courage to face his angry mother on my behalf,
 and that he had come to confess his fault
and pray for my forgiveness,  did I need to be

entreated? Oh no, he obtained it only too
easily. I only felt his hand holding mine,
and saw that I must not look into his face.
I had not a word of anger for him ; for somehow
 somehow, whatever he did was right. I
trusted him  I trusted him "

My bairn," said a kind, firm voice by the
bedside,  " my bairn, I understand. Fm an auld
woman, an' my days are numbered. Say your
say, an cry your fill : a sir heart's no' to
be hindered o' its freedom. Ye'll thole your
burden the easier an ye tell the auld wife
what's carkin' wi'in ; for though I'm nae Job's
comforter,"  with a conviction that the patriarch
had been deeply benefited by his,  '' an'
though I'm nathan mair than your ain auld
carline that's vexed for ye,  just to tell will
ease your heart's-card in itseV, my dear."

The flood-gates gave way as she spoke. " Don't
be vexed for me, don't be vexed for me ! "  sobs,
moans, gasping for breath. " I  I  don't deserve
it. Come here, come close to me, and
I'll tell you all : and, granny, dear granny, turn
away your head ; for  for  for  oh, I can't help
it  I can't help it,  I love him still."

Granny had no need to turn away her head.

unless it were to hide her own tears ; but of all
she said then and thenceforth, nothing seemed
in the ears of the hapless girl more apt, more
to the purpose, more fraught with silvery
threads of consolation, than the one short and
emphatic injunction  " Bide a bit and see." She
never once mentioned to husband or daughter
what passed on this occasion. When Evelyn's
name occurred in conversation, as was pretty
frequently the case at that time, she was busy
with her yarn, her knitting-pins  anything that
she had about. So often and suddenly would
he be mentioned by one or other in family conclaves
 so varied were the conjectures as to his
late behaviour, and so wide of the mark the
comments passed,  that many another, more
versed in diplomatic wiles, might have been
betrayed by sheer surprise into imprudent demeanour
; but this innocent-faced, simple-minded,
pottering little old woman, with her cheery
voice and open brow, was never at a loss.

How should she know anything of the
Captain ? He had never been near the hoofs
sin' the gudeman himself seed him to the door.
He had written, to be sure he had written.
Weel, they had a' seen the letter.

Ou ay, he had gain wa' ; an' what for sulci
he no' ?

"Is it likely," she would question briskly,
'' that a gentleman o' the Captain's tannin'
wad be hingin' about an auld farmhouse in
Gallowa, when there was nae mair fishing' to
be had in the burns, an' nae bonnie Miss Kate
to beguile wa' his time 1 Like enough he missed
her ; sae did they a'. But it wad hae been an
unco-like thing for a braw young gentleman,
brother or no, to hae been dallying' round the doors
o' the Muirland Farm till Miss Kate was about
again ! Hoots ! It might be mony a day 'ore
that cam' to pass. Missy was coin' brawly  she
was as weel as they had ony right to expect ;
but what then '? She had nae need o' greens
speer' after her. Captain or no Captain." . . .

'' Missy tell me tales ? Ay, that she has, an'
plenty. But gin ye think I'm gain to leave
the lave wi' a' the idle bits o' havers that comes
frae the pair bit bairn,  an' her lying' there sae
white and feckless,  ye're i' the wrong gait.
Aye, aye,  gie her time, an' please the Lord,
she'll come round' wi' the spring, like the gowans."

The spinning-wheel was out of its accustomed
corner when Kate came down at last.

Best tak' it tae the newest room," suggested
Mrs Comline, who was superintending the preparations
for the great event. " It's no' for sick
folk to be haudin' work wi' spinning-wheels.
Missy maun just sit i' her ain corner, an' read
her book, an' tak' her cup o' tea."

And nobody but Missy herself knew what
the edict meant.

CHAPTER XV.

'ris HE m Gallows Alone "? "

It were better to have no opinion of God at all, than such an
opinion as is unworthy of Him ; for the one is unbelief, the other is
contumely. "  Bacon.

Week after week passed, and but slow steps
had been made towards re - establishing the
strength of the patient.

It is probable that all the wear and tear
undergone by a system originally delicate, previous
to the rupture of the blood-vessel, had
now its effect in preventing a more speedy recovery.
Before her illness Kate had been at
a low ebb,  living on excitement, on feverish
joys and sorrows,  exerting herself by day and
lying awake by night,  wearing out her frame
with mental emotions and bodily exercise,  and
taking neither the support of rest nor of proper
food.

Time alone could repair the mischief done.

** And indeed," said Lady Olivia, as she lay
back in her barouche at Brighton, and thought
how convenient it was that Kate should have
been prescribed the strictest quiet and seclusion
at the very time that Marjorie had been ordered
sea-air,  "indeed, my dear Lady Julia, the whole
arrangement is quite Providential. Our poor
invalid is as well off as she could, by any possibility,
be under the circumstances. The most
excellent people to stay with, who quite devote
themselves to her comfort ; the best of doctors ;
and two nurses, one or other of whom never
leaves her. Think what it would have been

if my step-daughter had been taken ill at

do look at that frightful bonnet, dear ; did you
ever see such a deformity '? And, by the way,
the girls want some things ; we had better drive
to Harrington's. Oh, it is quite a relief to
my mind to think that my poor dear Kate is
so well taken care of."

Brighton was full, and nothing could be
pleasant than to drive from shop to shop,
choosing novelties of every kind ; to take a turn
next along the cliffs, and drop in to have a cup of
tea at one house or another on the way home.

Lady Olivia had not enjoyed herself so much
since the spring-time in Edinburgh ; and that
her husband, on this occasion, remained at Car-nolan,
did not interfere with her peace of
mind. She had him fast there  hews hers now,
for better, for worse ; and she beamed upon the
world as Lady Olivia Newbattle, a fresh young
married woman, with two dear little girls, 
quite a different person from the waning Lady
Olivia Evelyn, with nothing new nor interesting
about her.

She thought it an excellent arrangement that
she should bring with her Bertha and Marjorie,
accompanied by their governess, and that
Alice should stay behind with her father.

Alice, who thirsted to be once more supreme
in the mansion where she had reigned so long,
and who knew nothing of what she renounced,
never having been at a gay watering-place in
its season, was moved perhaps, in this instance,
more by ignorance than pliability. Whilst her
step-mother was communing with herself as to
how she could induce this young lady, who was
always thinking of the world and its charms,
to renounce the present opportunity for entering
upon them, Alice, whose eyes were fixed on

London, and who knew nothing of Brighton,
was, with equal inward perturbation, reckoning
up the pros and cons of her being permitted to
remain where she was.

Both endeavoured to conceal their pleasure
when an agreement was eventually arrived at.
If you wish it, my dear," said Lady Olivia,
with emphasis, ' and if your father approves, I
have nothing further to say. I am willing to
take you ; but if you prefer to stay, it is your
own affair  or rather, it is for your father to
decide."

I could not think of leaving papa all alone''
Probably she knew what she was about. The
winter months at Carnochan had no terrors for
one who was but too well used to them ; and
with carriages, horses, servants, and her father
once more at her disposal, she wanted no fairer
prospect. Lady Olivia had engaged for her being
taken out in the spring; and since she could
tell Susie Popham so, and dwell on the theme
in her own mind with certainty, she was content
to wait, and resume once more the life she
had been leading up to the time of her father's
second marriage. It was delightful to sit at the
head of the table again.

Permission from Mr Newbattle was further
obtained for a friend to be invited, to whom
Alice was in her way attached,  a girl who in
no wise interfered with whatsoever she chose
to do, say, or appear  one to whom the pretty
young Miss Newbattle was an object of sincerest
admiration and involuntary flattery.

Sophia Wilkinson was delighted to come, so
all was right ; and it must be confessed, that
with two nice young companions always in
good-humour, and with the absence of every
annoyance (which was insured by giving them
their own way in everything), there came a
wonderful sense of peace and quiet into poor
Mr Newbattle's life.

His plan for transferring every trouble on to
a wife's shoulders had not exactly answered.

Before Kate was got rid of, the vexatious girl
would accept no dictum except from his own
lips ; and to him Lady Olivia had frequently to
refer with dilated eyes, both in and out of his
children's presence. And even Kate's ejection,
though it had brought relief for the time, had
not effected all that he had been led to expect.

There was still the wrangle about the post-bas
in the morning, and the nuisance of having

to open it himself, because his lady would not
sit by and see it handed to his daughter, and
Alice made a fuss about its being carried past to
Lady Olivia's empty chair. Lady Olivia talked
of "sitting by and seeing it taken " to Alice; but
the fact was, that her ladyship was but rarely
down when the letters came.

What, then, was to be done ?

He himself was the proper person to give out
the correspondence, his wife asserted; and his
lame response that hitherto it had been always
done for him, served him in no stead.

He did not know where the key was.

Well, Alice could keep the key, and hand it
to him when the bag came in.

It ended in this, that sometimes one, and
sometimes another, went through the ceremonial ;
that the grey-headed butler, who had grown
used to bring it to Miss Newbattle, doggedly
refused to remember he was to do so no longer ;
that father and daughter connived, whenever
they durst, at his disobedience ; that there was
a perpetual bustle and secrecy, an affectation of
innocence, and thrusting of the great leather
pouch under the table, if in the wrong quarter,
when the rustle of Lady Olivia's train was

heard; and that he was glad when the nuisance
was over, every day of his life. He hated
letters at all times,  they were no good to
anybody,  and he would willingly, but for his
newspaper, have made an arrangement to have
them delivered only twice a-week.

Now he could get his newspaper in peace,
and not be forced to give heed to sheets of trash
first,  since his daughter, who had passed all her
life with him, naturally understood that he was
not to be pestered. None of them had ever
expected papa to listen to a letter before Lady
Olivia came, and they could not help giggling
to each other occasionally at the squire's rueful
face under the daily infliction. He could not
make his new wife understand his old ways.

The tea - making had also been a fruitful
source of division.

He had either to wait and wait for his cup
at breakfast, and get it harsh and bitter from
standing too long, in the end,  or he had to
undergo a quick look, an '' Oh, you have got
your tea ? I hope it is right,  I hope you have
enough sugar ? I was hurrying as fast as I
possibly could to get down, but you have been
beforehand with me."

Certainly Lady Olivia's move to Brighton was
not altogether a source of regret.

He got Alice to let him know what they were
going to have for dinner, as he had done in
other Decembers, when time hung heavy on his
hands. He did not put on dress-clothes of an
evening. He slept in his arm-chair as long ashe
chose.

His daughter had no need to exaggerate  and
accordingly she did not do so  when she triumphantly
informed the absentees that papa and
she were getting on as well as possible, and that
papa was quite glad that they should stay away
another fortnight, or as long as Lady Olivia
liked.

It suited Lady Olivia to stay away ; but she
did not, naturally, relish having the leave thus
granted. She might enjoy her lively afternoons
along the shore, and declare there was no place
in the world to compare to Brighton in the
early winter, and think of Carnochan in her
own mind with a positive shudder of distaste ;
but she was not altogether pleased to be permitted
to absent herself for as long as ever she
liked. She laid it by in her own mind, that it
would be as well to have Madam Alice out of

the way as soon as it could be done. By hook
or by crook, the young lady should be presented,
introduced, and married the following
summer, since it would never do to let her get
the thin end of the wedge in at Carnochan

again.

Bertha and Marjorie, Lady Olivia found
tractable enough under Mademoiselle's supervision,
 all three being enchanted with the
change, and the novelty of being among crowds
of people, and carriages, and shops, at a time of
year which, to the young ones at least, brought
recollections of nothing but dreary monotony,
one dull grey sky rolling over their heads after
another, lessons and walks unbroken by any
variety, and rabbits every day for the early
dinner.

Mademoiselle little knew what she escaped
by missing that mid-day meal at Carnochan in
December. Naturally, it was the first to suffer
from the end of the game season  and the barrenness
of the garden and the poultry-yard ; and
although, under the new regime, we cannot say
but that matters might have mended, since
Lady Olivia was a luncheon-eater, it certainly,
so far, bore to the minds of Bertha and Marjorie

no other interpretation than that of pies and
parsnips.

Kate, at the Muirland Farm, fared a great
deal better.

On the little table by her side the daintiest
of dishes, contrived with skill born of tender
thought and care, were daily to be found. No
trouble was too great to be taken either by
the farmer in collecting the materials, or by
his wife in cooking them. Of wild - duck,
woodcock, and such dainties, sent in by the
Castle Kenrick factor, with whom Mr Comline
was at this time most particular friends, the
larder was never empty ; and they were doue
to a turn  they were uncovered smoking on
rounds of toast by Missy's arm-chair.

'' Let the lass there serve my young teddy I"
exclaimed the worthy dame one day, a neighbour
having expressed surprise at finding
Mistress Comline on her knees before the fire,
toasting-fork in hand. '' My certe, no ! Nor
Lizzie neither. Lizzie has nae liken' for cookery-work.
Illa bit and sup Miss Kate takes is frae
my hand  I can tell ye that, mistress ; and little
wad I grudge to be over the pans a' day an
she wad eat what she gets, pair thing ! "

Folks say she was over het shame, an' that
that was why she left Carnochan," replied the
woman, a gossip.

An whaup heard ye that, mistress ? "

I was toon at Kirkcudbright ten days syne."

*' Then gae back to Kirkcudbright, an' tell the
folk there that they hae been tinging' ye wi' cleavers.
Missy gangs hame to Carnochan sae sure as she
can travel that saur. She was here for a time,
stopping' wi' my doctor  Lizzie was governess
to her ain wee sisters,  and this befell or
bonnie visitor. That's the story. Mak' what
ye like o't."

Dame Comline was no simpleton.

She would contrive to get rid of any chance
caller before Kate came down-stairs of an afternoon,
which was usually about three o'clock.
The fire would be blazing brightly, the room all
tidied and fresh ; the arm-chair would be placed
in the ingle-neck, and the little brown teapot on
the hob,  after having dined at noon, by which
time the invalid was quite ready for her repast,
tea at three o'clock was neither extraordinary
nor unwelcome.

Neither the farmer nor Lizzie would be present,
it being understood that one person's com-vol.

IT. D

any alone was desirable for the still weak and
spiritless girl during her first few hours below ;
so, long before any one else invaded the parlour,
Missy would have had her tea, and her toast,
and her fresh egg, carefully put by from among
the last laid, and supposed, therefore, to be most
nutritious as well as appetising. While the
repast went on Mrs Combine hung about the
room, watching with radiant or sorrowful face,
according as the viands were eaten, or left ; and
as soon as the tray was done with, it would be
carried out by the old woman herself, who
would presently reappear, all trimmed up for
the afternoon, ready to sit calmly down, and
either chat or dose, as required.

It was no uncommon thing, at those times, for
her to find the slight fragile form bending over
clasped hands, and to catch the glitter of brimming
eyes in the firelight. It was not without
good cause that the room was kept cleared of all
intrusion during those brief twilights. And the
old nurse would watch in silence, never encroaching
on that confidence which had been
bestowed, as it were, involuntarily. It was not
for her to speak. Sooner or later the bowed
head would turn of itself to lie upon her bosom.

Up to the time of her illness, Kate had only
known the farmer's wife as a kind, useful, cheerful
old body, whom nobody had a word to say
against, and whose smile shed no uncertain light
over her broad, homely countenance.

Now it was incredible to her that she should
ever have preferred even her friend Lizzie, or
the worthy Mr Comline, to her devoted, tenderhearted,
delicate-minded attendant. Never was
there a finer, more subtle sense of sympathy
shown than by that old Scottish peasant
woman.

Lizzie was good, and sensible, and kind, and
it was Lizzie whose part she had taken, and
for whose sake she was under sentence ; but
Lizzie could not, she now saw, compare in native
pith and power, nor yet in sweetness of disposition,
with her mother. The farmer was sterling
and straightforward, but he wanted the superiority
of his wife. It amazed Kate. How
blind she had been !

She shrank from quitting hold of that strong
and loving hand.

How should she go back to the old life, into
which every hour brought its trial and temptation,
and not fall ? In her own home what darts



 

of bitterness, anger, and malice might not the
tempter have in store 1

How shall I," said she, sadly, " when I have
no one to speak to, no one to help me,  how shall
I get the better of these ? It is so easy to think
we can withstand our evil thoughts when there
is nothing to call them forth,  but I know how
it will be as soon as I go back, granny; and how
shall I do then''

Did ye no' withstand," said the old woman,
solemnly, '* greater than they in that day when
the Lord sifted ye as wheat, and ye fell no' ?
Did ye resist then in your ain strength, my
bairn ? And is it war, think you, to say i' the
Lord's name to your proud tongue, * Peace, be
still ! ' or to say it to your torn heart ? What is
it ye hae to win through that can be event to
what ye hae cam' through already ? Strengthen
yersel' i' the Lord, my dear ; cry upon His name
i' the day o' your need. He wha's hearkened
ance, will no' shut His ears another time. The
Lord is gude, a stronghold i' the day o' trouble,
an' He kens a' them that trust i' Him."

Or again, '' See ye no', Miss Kate, ye manna
be foot o' the battle over lang. When the armour
is laid down it grows rusted, an s for nae

gude when it's wanted nest. It's a handle the
better for being aye in use. It's no' in ae place,
nor in thither place, we're to rest in this world ;
the rest, my bairn, is wi'in the saul. What, an'
the storm rages, an' the waves beat hard upon
ye '? The Lord's ain manna be feared. Can He
no' hand ye in the hollow o' His hand ? Is He in
Gallowa alone ? Ou ay, there's a lang life afore
ye yet maybe, my dear, and mony a waste withe
flesh, 'ore ye can look back wi' thankful' ere
across the threescore years and twa that I see
hint me."

I am not eager to have a long life, granny."
(Of course not, poor child,  the old story.)

Ye magna be eager, but ye may hae it fora'
that," observed granny, astutely.

*' It is not for myself I am afraid "

'' I ken, I ken. It's no for yourself', but o'
yourself', ye fear. Ye think to fa' frae grace,
because o' the temptations ye forecast. But,
Miss Kate, my dawtie, that's just the want o'
faith that's noo creeping' in, sin' nae other whisper
o' Satan can fin' its way. There's name
here to moil ye and leave ye, and name to lure
ye to sin wi's beguiling' tongue,  and sae ye
maun be tried this gait. Ay, ay; the auld

serpent no' let us be, t ane way nor thither, sae
lang as we're o' the Lord's side ; and it behoves
us, my bairn, to be ready,  aye ready."

At other times she would speak more lightly.
*' See what they'll think at Carnochan when they
get back sic a douce young teddy, sae cheery,
and couth, and lightsome. They'll no ken it's
the same Miss Kate wha gazed wa in ill-will.
Hoots ! my teddy herself's maybe then the rue
o' her crankrums, an's learned to mend her
says. Folks senna hoo they hae their ain
hand in ilk other's misdoings'. We musca' mony
a ane when half the mischief lies at or ain door.
When ye gang hame "

'' Oh ! " with a sigh.

'' Hoots, fye, then ! that's no' the way to look
afore ye, Missy," cheerily. " Na, na ; time was
Ashen ye were keen enough to gang "

And you know why, or at least partly why.
That I might vex them, and defy them, and
prevent them from triumphing over me. It
was  it really was. And now that I see my
wicked purpose aright, I would put it from
me altogether. I would not indulge an unkind
thought : I would keep away from the
place "

It's no' by keeping' wa frae the place ye'll
do them ony gude. It's by gain back among
them  them that's your ain kith and kin 
wi' a subjected spirit and a cheerful' countenance.
It's by haein' a kind word for ane,
an' a glint o' the 'ee for another, an' by setting'
an example o' meekness an' patience before the
bits o' bairns, your sisters. See, Miss Kate, let
them hear ye discard an' no answering' again,
an' neglect an' no' gloom', decked at an'
bearing' it a' for the sake o' Him wha bore His
cross for you,  and that'll be the lesson ye
can faith learn and teach at Carnochan. And
wha's to say but what, when my teddy herself'
finds that glowering' been an' grumphin' answers
arena rife, she'll be sweet to stir them up
adam i

It's not what Lady Olivia says," replied
Kate. " It is the things that she does. She
treats us as if we were children."

The dame smiled.

And you know," continued the young lady,
that Alice and I are not children now. Alice
has been at the head of papa's house for years ;
and we have never had any one over us,  our
governess. Miss Mitchell, had nothing to do

with US except in school-hours; and she had
gone several months before your Lizzie came,
so that we had got to feel quite grown up,
and to spend our time just as we liked'

*rand that diana do''

'* Oh no ; Alice was not allowed to practise
in the drawing-room, and I was stopped reading
the library books ; and we had to say each
day where we wanted to go, and if we would
walk, or ride, or drive,  instead of just running
in and out, as we used to do. We had never
before teased each other with questions,  each
one used to do just what they chose, Alice
used often to take it into her head to set off
in the pony - carriage about ten o'clock, and
have an hour or two's shopping at Kirkcudbright,
and look in for luncheon at people's
houses coming back. Papa never minded, but
Lady Olivia made quite a fuss. And she was
just as tiresome about me. Why could she
not let me alone 1 All I wanted was to be
allowed to say for myself what I liked,  not
to be invited here and there. What I liked
was to stay in the garden, or to go out in the
boat by myself in the afternoons, and to have
long delightful walks when the light was going.

and the dew was falling, and everything was
most beautiful "

*' Ahem ! " said Mrs Comline, significantly.

It was cruel of her to stop me, was it not,
granny ? What did it matter about dinner '? I did
not want dinner at that time of day. I always
had what I wanted along with the children atone
o'clock ;  and to be brought in for dinner 1 "
No words could describe the scorn of her '* dinner."
Dinner does not go for much at seventeen.

'' Noo, Miss Kate, I maun tell ye the truth.
Gif my teddy had let ye alone, as ye ca' it, an' then
nae heed o' dislike coins', I for ane wad hae said
she had muckle to answer for, faith to God an'
man. As to your sister Miss Alice, I speak no' o'
her, for I senna gentlefolks' ways, and nathless
it wad seem simple enough that she should step
in to see her greens i' the bygaun,  it michtna be
right, for a' that ;  but, my dear, ony ane that
was set over ye, and wad let a bonnie young
thing gang stravagin' up and toon the countryside
her lane i' the gloaming' it's no seemly,

my dear ; an' what's mair, it's no safe."

Safe ! " Kate opened her eyes in amazement.
" Safe ! My dear granny, I know every
road and by-path "

' Ye may do that, and-and

I have only once been frightened by a
bull, and never by a drunken man ! "

' Drunken men are no' the worst. There's

tramps, gipsies, pickpockets but nae need

for mair : bairns like you maun be guided by
alder folks, an' be thankful' ye senna why
nor wherefore. Ye'll believe me, maybe, when
I tell ye, Missy, that your teddy mither did
her fair duty by ye on that heed; and ye
maun promise me, my bairn,  gie me your
word, an' I ken ye'll no break it,  that ye'll
ne'er need her to speak 'tye anent that matter
mair. I could sleep i' my bed at night an
I thocht sae fair a lamb ran the risk o' meeting'
wi' "

"Wolves," said Kate, with a faint smile. '' I
never met but with the one. You did not scold
me then, granny."

'' If I diana, the gudeman did. I mind he
fluted me, anyway; an' we ay keepit an ere
upo' ye, forbye. But ye ken. Missy, ye wadna
thole a word frae anybody then ; an' 'deed, I
was that frichtit for ye, that I wad scarce hae
hindered ye o' your wull, whate'er it turned to.
Eh, my dear, you are changed, to say nathan'

o' your bit white facie and fingers that I can
see through. But ye maun mind and be careful'
o' your health,  you that hae gotten it back sae
fairly. It'll be mony a day afore ye're what
ye was again, mind ye that." And thus, with
no apparent effort, she would glide away to
something else.

She would not show that she avoided Evelyn's
name,  she would even refer to him dien
it became evident that the thoughts of the sick
girl were dwelling on some reminiscence which
it would be well to ease her of; but if it were
merely a casual observation which arose out of
the topic of the moment, she would allow it to
pass. To speak of him often, would have been
to feed the fancy with the poisonous food of
recollection and regret; to mention him never,
would have been to drive these to strike their
roots do wm wards among the fibres of the very
heart itself.

CHAPTER XVI.

BRIGHTON AND CARNOCHAN.

** Our time in towns seems short to pass, and long to reflect upon ; in
the country the reverse."  Whetstone.

The only one of her step-daughters for whom
Lady Olivia entertained any real affection was
Marjorie.

Now Marjorie was pretty, with large blue
saucer-eyed prettiness ; and she had smiles and
winning ways which were at the command of
every new-comer. Bertha, indeed, was wont to
allege that all persons were alike to her little
sister, and that she would make friends with
a chimney-sweep for a sugar-plum ; but then
Bertha thought it hard  harder now than it had
ever been before  that Maidie, who was two
years her junior, and whom they all looked
upon as still a baby, though she was in reality
eleven years old, should be so much brought

forward under the new government, whilst she
herself remained in her pristine obscurity.

Maidie had never forgotten the day when she
had first stood by Lady Olivia's chair, and had
been fondled, and kissed, and passed from one
to another as a little angel. Her appearance
had been so infantile, that endearments and
flattery had not even been conveyed in asides ;
and the recollection was one of enchantment.

To the astonishment of all, she had flown to
Lady Olivia, whom all the rest were meeting
with armed neutrality at best, on her arrival at
Carnochan, and had then and there hailed her
as 'mamma."

Who could help being pleased ?

In the fervour of her first enthusiasm, indeed,
the dear girls had been assured that the bride
would not wish them to bestow on her, and far
less would she think of exacting, such an appellation
; they should not, she begged them to
understand at once, be called upon to forget for
her their own departed parent. No, she would
rather be looked upon in the light of an elder
sister, one who would join in their amusements,
and take part in all their projects ; and she had
even meditated suggesting that in the family

circle the prefix to her name should be dropped,
and she be to them simply " Olivia."

Prudence stepped in, luckily. She was nota
very far-seeing woman, but still she stopped
short of this.

And now that eight months of her newly-wedded
career had gone by, and time had shown
that the dead mother was in no danger of being
supplanted, and that the question of the elder
sisterhood and *' Olivia " had been disposed of
also, " mamma " had a pretty sound from little
Marjorie's lips.

Although it was not entirely on the little
one's account,  not quite so entirely as was to
be supposed at least,  that the Brighton trip was
undertaken, still there was an outline of truth
in the maternal anxiety.

Marjorie was growing fast, and she was not
robust,  as indeed none of the sisters were. She
might droop before any one was aware; and Lady
Olivia was just beginning to fuss and arrange,
as Evelyn had communicated to Kate, when
the illness of the utter nipped the project in
the bud. As long as the one sister was in real
danger, the supposed delicacy of the other could
wait for its share of attention ; she could only

look at the child, and sigh, and observe, half
spontaneously, half diplomatically, '' I hope and
trust nothing will go wrong here next ; '' but no
sooner were satisfactory tidings received from
the Muirland Farm, than she pinned her husband
to the promise extorted from him previously,
and carried through her scheme.

Marjorie was now by her 'mamma's" side
constantly.

She admired and believed in Lady Olivia,
whatever the others might say ; and as a natural
consequence, she was the object of an
amount of endearment and indulgence, which
surprised Lady Olivia herself. ''If I had but
her alone," she would now think.

Such an engaging little thing," she would
whisper to one and another, making the very
most she could of the phrase ; for indeed it was
something now to be able to say a good word
for any one of Mr Newbattle's daughters  even
Bertha, such as she was, weighing down the
wrong scale. " But this is really such an amusing,
bright little creature. I do assure you, I
quite dote on her. I could not love that child
more if she were my own,  she is my own indeed.
I look upon her as such, invariably. You

will say I spoil the little darling, I suppose?
Well, perhaps. But who could help it ? She is
made to be a pet."

If such was Marjorie's vocation, she must be
given the credit of fulfilling it to admiration.

Even when most indignant at the preference
so openly manifested, Bertha's spleen vented
itself, not on the favourite,  as is commonly
the case with jealous and defeated aspirants to
honour,  but on the deserving person. She was
impotently furious with her step-mother; but as
for Maidie,  Maidie, who was so chirp and
bright, so unconscious that all was not as it
should be, that everything was not going to her
sister's mind as it was to her own,  it was not
in human nature to take up the cudgels against
such a blossom.

Bertha, however, had certainly no better cause
for thinking kindly of Lady Olivia since coming
to Brunswick Square than she had done before.

All went on with outward decorum ; and the
recollection of Carnochan would have been sufficient
to hush any clamours on the part of the
disaffected one, even had Mademoiselle not been
by to keep all smooth with a high hand, as well
as by soothing representations,  resolved that

Miladi should find the little household in good
order at Brighton, whatever they might be elsewhere
: but still Bertha had her grievance.

She learned to know what the frequent step
at the schoolroom-door meant, and to anticipate
the message that Miss Marjorie was to be ready to
drive out with her ladyship in half an hour or so.

She had a conviction that when the sapphire-blue
velvet pelisse and hat came from Harrington's,
over and above the dark merinos which had
been ordered for the little girls' daily wear, no
second pelisse would be found at the bottom of
the box. She knew, without asking, whom the
one was for.

The merinos were despised in her eyes from
that time, although they were neater and smarter
than anything she and Marjorie had ever possessed
for that season of the year before. Usually
they got along in the winter without many new
frocks. There were but few neighbours about
after Christmas, and the weather was sure to be
bad, keeping them at home a great deal ; and
there were old things to be worn out,  so that
really nice and fashionable warm clothing was
to the girls a novelty.

Bertha was not surprised to find that Alice

VOL. II. E

had been greatly charmed with the parcel which
Lady Olivia had been ready enough to despatch
an easy way of being civil  for, in truth, it
contained what seemed to Miss Newbattle the
handsomest outfit she had ever had in her life.
But then she had not seen the sapphire velvet,
the plumed hat, and the daintily-embroidered
socks, gloves, and other accessories to match,
which transformed her little sister into a model
for a dressmaker's album. It was all very
well for Alice to write her gushing note of
thanks, and for Lady Olivia to show it to
Mademoiselle, and for Mademoiselle to tell her.
Bertha, afterwards, that Alice's toilette was no
better than what Miladi had bestowed on her,
yet Alice was charmed, whilst she was ingrate.

Bertha saw what she saw, and Mademoiselle
might say what she would.

And then, of course. Lady Olivia had her
cheerful excuse.

You like the pelisse. Mademoiselle ? I felt
sure you would. The poor child must have
some change, you know, when she goes everywhere
with me. And she is to have as much of
the open air, without being over-fatigued, as possible,
 those were the doctor's orders. Nothing

can be more in accordance with them than carriage
exercise. As for your other pupil, Bertha
knows that I must not take a great girl like her
away from her lessons. The dear child," looking
fondly at Marjorie, who came dancing in
with her little fur-tipped boots, muff, and gauntlets
all complete ; " she looks already many degrees
better for this delightful air and her little
holiday. Do you not think so. Mademoiselle ? "

Mademoiselle most solemnly did.

Brighter,  rosier,  more life and vivacity
in her altogether."

Assortment, oui ; plus d'espieglerie, Miladi,
nest-cepas ? Dat is what we do all see. Maladies
great  great honour in de little Marjorie."

She must be ready at half-past two," Miladi
would then respond, well pleased. '' The days
are so short now, that we must never be later
in getting out. And perhaps. Mademoiselle,
you and Bertha would like to go to the promenade
concert on the parade this afternoon '? "

Miladi was too good ; they would like it very
much.

When they had thus obtained permission to
attend. Mademoiselle and Bertha could stay out
to a late hour, and in such wise were benefited

by Lady Olivia's thoughtfulness ; but the concert
was not deprived of their presence, even if
nothing had been said at luncheon on the subject.
In the latter case, however, they were
obliged to be back in time for Bertha to be
strumming exercises on the piano with all imaginable
diligence as her step-mother passed the
schoolroom on her way up-stairs, and for Mademoiselle
to be bending over her needle-work incase
Lady Olivia should think fit to present
herself for a moment in the doorway and receive
a French compliment on her latest toilet.
That was all the difference they made. And to
be sure, they considered it was but fair that
they as well as others should have their recreation,
their variety. .'' Le monde est le livre des
femmes" the gay Frenchwoman would exclaim.
 My pupil does right to profit herself by this
opportunity. N'est-ce pas, mon ami f The
savoir faire, the savoir vivre, are not to be
taught by books. One must see de societe ;
hear conversation ; make friends,  all these one
must do to be the femme comme ilfaut"

And accordingly she acted ; she and Bertha
went to every twopenny-halfpenny fete, show,
or what not that came within their reach ; enjoying

themselves prodigiously, and picking up
divers choice acquaintances, of whom there was
no need to make mention to Lady Olivia.

Lady Olivia would rattle up to the door soon
after five o'clock, when everything was as it
should be in the schoolroom ; and Maidie would
come bounding in, all glee and vanity, telling
how one lady had said this, and another that 
how one had praised her curls, and another her
curtsey,  ending by shaking her boxes of bonbons
in Bertha's face.

Almost invariably she had had her tea out ;
she thought herself quite ill-used if, by any
chance, she were brought home before the lamps
were lit in the streets ; and finding Mademoiselle
and Bertha over their frugal repast, was a delightful
climax to an afternoon's dissipation.
They would be regaled with her accounts.

On their ** leave out" days, when they were
late, she laughed at their appetites for toast and
jam, and at Mademoiselle's occasional petition
for a poached egg, necessary after the amount
of fatigue she had undergone. The saucy miss
turned up her nose at eggs and jam : coffee,
chocolate, and sweetmeats, with plenty of ice-cream
about them, was what she was accustomed

to ; and bread and butter, cut thin off a brown
loaf, was the only kind tolerable.

That Mademoiselle and her companion were
not so nice in their choice was, however, scarcely
to be wondered at, since walking about in the
keen frosty air for hours would make most people
hungry. It was wonderful what the two went
through and throve upon ; hither and thither, up
and down, escorted by the friends above-named,
the little brisk brunette and the lanky schoolgirl
took an amount of exercise that was positively
amazing,  and took it, moreover, right under
the nose of Lady Olivia. It never once occurred
to Lady Olivia to wonder why it should be necessary
for the governess and her pupil to remain out
for an hour and a half after the concert was over,
on the days they had her gracious permission to
attend ; and even if she had given the matter a
thought, when Mademoiselle was so much obliged,
and they had enjoyed their little treat so
heartily, and had thought it so kind of Miladi
to offer them to go, it would have been quite
impolite to ask questions.

For her own part, she was glad enough if such
a poor little affair amused her good Mademoiselle.

She and Marjorie had pleasant afternoons

too. Somebody had given the little girl a doll ;
and the doll was so like its mistress, that, as
Maidie held it in her arms, the ladies opposite
for Lady Olivia was sure to pick up a Lady
Something-else upon her drive  would nod, and
smirk, and say pretty things to each other about
the baby-picture ; and the more her step-mother
found that Maidie's yellow curls floating over
her blue pelisse attracted attention and notice,
and the oftener she had to say to the gay
colonel or the jocose baronet, " Oh, Gee, you
naughty man ; what ideas you do put into the
child's head ! Pray, don't talk nonsense to a
girl of her age,"  the better she liked to have
such an ornament to her barouche.

It renewed her youth to be the guardian of
such a young thing. She almost forgot her own
mature son, and her other tiresome step-daughters,
and felt as if the little hand which was so
confidingly put in hers as they sailed in and out
of drawing-rooms, was the only one she knew
about. The carriage now never went out without
a small figure on the back seat, and another
smart tippet and frock were bought.

Bertha could not stand this.

I shall just tell Alice," she said ; " I shall

just write to her, and see what she will say.
It's not Lady Olivia's carriage ; it's our carriage,
papa's and ours ; and I have only been in it
once since we came ! Maidie goes everywhere,
and I go nowhere ! "

Mademoiselle, however, got her pupil subdued,
after some half an-hour's trouble. What
would the petite have 1 Would she desire to leave
her own poor Mademoiselle to spend her afternoons
all by herself ? Would she prefer to have
the little Marjorie as their companion, which
would necessitate their taking the country walk,
the dull triste stroll over the downs, or the stupid
round in the square ? Would she like to
quit all the gay splendid shops and the pleasant
company on the promenade, besides the band,
which gave them music so enchanting?

Had not Mademoiselle, moreover, permitted
Bertha to accompany her and Fraulein Lebrunn
to purchase their new muffs and palatines, and
to help in the selection of the ribbons and
flowers for their ravishing bonnets ? What of
the nice little parties ? The pleasant reunions ?
They were not for infants like Marjorie ; and
assuredly Bertha would not have been so well
amused in the barouche.

Now Bertha should dry her eyes, and they
would go out and buy a nice brown muffin for
their tea that evening,  which was done, Mademoiselle
standing treat.

The muffin came up smoked. That infuriated
Mademoiselle.

Her coffin was spoilt  unfit to be toch. It
was a shame, a waste of good food that was
unpardonable. No one cared what was served
up to the schoolroom ; anything was good enough
for her and pupils ; the only attention that was
paid to any one in the house was paid to Lady
Olivia.

She would tell Miladi of the neglect.

She did, and no muffin ever again made its
appearance ill-done for the children's tea, the
moment chosen being a happy one, and the
petitioner serving up with the complaint a suitable
garnishing of flattery and submission. But
although Ijady Olivia took up on this occasion
the cause of the oppressed, she never forgot
afterwards, if Mademoiselle chanced to be in
bad odour with her, that she was " a greedy
creature," and '' quite devoted to her own selfish
comforts."

In the height of her swing, and with everything

about her as she would have it, Ijady
Olivia scarcely found time to remember how
hard it was that her darling son should absent
himself from England at the very time of her
coming south. Now and then it did indeed
occur to her that he had been used to be rather
fond of a run down to Brighton ; and as she
reflected on the subject, she wondered what
could be the inducement which could make a
man in his senses spend the remainder of his
leave in Algeria when he could be anywhere
else '?

But certainly she neither pined for his letters,
nor pestered him with hers.

It was only at Carnochan that he was of
first-rate importance,  only when he had no
competitors but her boudoir, her correspondence,
and Mrs Popham, that she found he
had a superior hold upon her affections.

Amidst gayer scenes he would undoubtedly
have been welcome ; she would have liked to
have had him to chat to at her breakfast-table,
to have met him, nodded to him, pointed him
out as her son Captain Evelyn, on the pier and
on the cliff,  and further, to have read his
name in the list of those present at the evening

gaieties, to which, in the absence of any
excuse for doing so, she could hardly go herself.


Above all things. Lady Olivia was a model
of propriety, and she now rigidly abstained
from evening diversions ; but to have been
represented as it were, and not to have felt
quite "out of it" when the next morning's
chronicle showed who had been where the night
before, would have been gratifying.

Rupert, however, was not necessary to her at
Brighton,  she had consequence enough for a
mere watering-place ; added to which, she had
amusement and variety, and, above all, the sweet
sense of having (as she told Lady Julia) done
her duty in thus quitting her beautiful home,
and her best of husbands, for the sake of his
sweet little girl.

The effort, joy to tell, had not been made in
vain. That was the reward she had ; and it
was reward sufficient to make all renunciation
easy. Her darling Marjorie looking like herself
again,  what more could she desire ?

Which, being interpreted, meant that the self-sacrificing
lady could do without her son, and
that Mr Newbattle was just as well away.

Mademoiselle would be interrogated from
time to time as to how she liked Brighton ?

''Milsidi, fen suis ravine," Mademoiselle would
then reply. " So gay, so debonair, so Paris-like
a spot I have not seen since I come to this
country."

Indeed ? Yes, you are right ; it is very gay
and pleasant." (" A good soul," Lady Olivia
would reflect. " She is contented with little.
Not always troubling and teasing, as some governesses
do. Her accent is perfection,  Lady
Montfort remarked on it the other day,  and
she looks well and dresses well. She is really
a most creditable person to have about. It was
an excellent idea, that of bringing her") " Pray,
however, Mademoiselle," aloud, " do not permit
Bertha to stand in front of the shop-windows
as I saw her doing yesterday. I was really
shocked. I saw her when we first went out,
and when we returned a long, long time afterwards,
she was still there. You, my good Mademoiselle,
do not understand our English ways.
With us it is not comme ilfaut to inspect millinery
from the streets. We do not even turn
our heads as we pass. Me comprenez vous f "

"Miladi, je vous comprends. I understand

for the future. Pour moi, yes, it is true that
I Lave been in blame par regarde. I did permit
the poor Berta to herself amuse for a few
moments with some of the bagatelles, the
nouveau tees that are put out at this time of year
in so charming a spectacle. Berta is not un
enfant gate ; she is tres docile, obedient, industrious.
I think sometimes she is un pic triste.
I take her to de beetle show "

"Take her to the promenade, by all means."

'' Miladi is too good. We will go to the
promenade avec beaucoup de plaisir. The sunshines,
and it will drive away all de vapeurs.
Come, my Berta, let us hasten to be diligent,
to complete our tasks, and make ourselves ready.
La cadette goes with Miladi, n'est-ce pas f "

La cadette did, and so did some one else
who was rather fond of Lady Olivia's chariot
just then.

This was a small, dark, sallow-complexioned
young man, with a very magnificent walking-stick.
Mademoiselle and her charge dubbed
him Monsieur Silverstick, and it diverted them
to perceive how often this ugly little Monsieur
Silverstick was found lolling back on the
cushions beside Marjorie.

'' Quefait-il done f " Mademoiselle would exclaim,
curiously. " I do not comprehend that
Miladi should have in attendance a gentleman
so young, so distinguish, so ordinaire. . . .
He is what you call common  voltaire," she
would break off suddenly, being marvellously
quick and discriminating on such a point.

She would laugh to herself, and hold up her
hands, as the barouche went by, with its new
occupant, serenely satisfied to all appearance,
staring vacantly abroad from his perch. She
would put little questions to Marjorie as to
where he was picked up, where put down, and
the like.

Marjorie could answer these, and she could
give the new friend's name, and show that it was
prefixed by no title  Mademoiselle's easiest solution
of the problem  but she could do no more ;
and the more odd it was in Lady Olivia to trouble
herself about the attendance of a satellite from
whom no credit could apparently be derived,
and whose companionship could scarcely be supposed
to afibrd any pleasure, the more Mademoiselle
put her wits together to unravel the
mystery.

At length Fate helped her.

About a fortnight after Monsieur Silverstick's
appearance on the scene, Lady Olivia came
straight from the drawing-room to the schoolroom
 in itself an event  one wet and boisterous
afternoon, and cried gaily, " Guess, children,
who is coming ? You are to have a great surprise,
mes enfants. Come."

Now, to tell the truth, the reputation for
strict discipline which Mademoiselle Pierrepoint
was so keen to cultivate, might somewhat have
suffered on this occasion had not the speaker,
all panting and smiling, burst in open-mouthed
if such a phrase were not derogatory to Lady
Olivia's dignity  and been too full of herself
and her communication to notice anything
amiss.

Mademoiselle, with her arm - chair drawn
round so as to be full in front of the glowing
hearth, piled to overflowing, which shed a delicious
warmth throughout the apartment had
her head imbedded in the soft cushions, her feet
on the fender, and her book on the floor,  for
having satisfied herself that the day was too
bad for either herself or Lady Olivia to venture
out, she had settled down for the afternoon, and
had shortly before simmered off into a gentle

slumber. The children had pulled down the
window-curtains and made with them separate
houses, wherein each might dwell and read her
story-book in solitary grandeur, and they now
peeped forth from between the folds, with elfin
locks straying over their brows, and dusty
smears on their cheeks and fingers.

There was nothing precisely reprehensible
in the scene, bat there was a pervading atmosphere
of jaunty looseness, a devil-may-care look
of comfort and laxity, that was not altogether
in keeping with precise schoolroom etiquette,
and that was instantaneously perceptible to
any one with a delicate sense of the fitness of
things.

Such a sense had Mademoiselle. She leaped
from the arms of Morpheus and a long band of
her excellent brown hair tumbled off

Even the titter which the accident gave rise
to, the blame of which Bertha instantly prepared
to charge to Marjorie,  was lost on Lady
Olivia. Her entire attention was engrossed by
some inward prospect, some consideration of a
nature so agreeable that it rendered her insensible
to the serious and comical aspect of
affairs alike, and she addressed herself to the

party generally, with the utmost indifference to
the wild and threatening aspect of the unlucky
governess, and without bestowing a glance on
the rumpled frocks of the little girls, or the
dishevelled state of matters generally.

' Guess, children," she repeated, waving in
her hand a letter which the post had brought
in a few minutes before. *' Guess who that is
from, and who will be here tomorrow ! "

Marjorie flew to her. " Are we to guess,
mamma? Then I shall guess  Eupert. Oh,
I know it must be Eupert,  and he is always
so nice and good-natured, that I am sure he
will take me for a drive in one of those delightful
little carriages we saw yesterday "

Stop, stop ! " Lady Olivia had called a
halt three times before she had a chance of
being heard. " Stop, stop, stop ! " cried she,
laughing. "Not so fast, little parrot; your
tongue flies like the wind ! But you will have
to think again, Marjorie, for your first guess is
wrong."

'ris it not Eupert?" said Marjorie, dolorously.


No. I wish it were. At least  that is to
say,  well, guess again."

VOL. II. F

Kate, my own dear ,"

said her step-mother, in a different
tone.

It was Alice, and at the name it must be
confessed that every face fell.

Even Mademoiselle looked crestfallen; since
Mademoiselle, no less than the younger ones,
had, after the first moment of bewilderment
and consternation, conceded to Miladi's
tidings the degree of interest which had appeared
to be their due ; and whilst keeping
aloof from the guessing - match between her
pupils, she had watched for the end with considerable
eagerness. She had never before seen
so much excitement and hilarity manifested
even by her volatile patroness, and felt prepared
for a disclosure of importance. But Alice !

Dejectedly she now repossessed herself of her
faithless tress, and stared after Lady Olivia as
she quitted the room.

Only Alice ! The whole three were mute
with disgust and disappointment.

What was there in Alice's arrival to make a
stir about '? Alice was nothing to anybody.
Lady Olivia must have been crazed to rush
upstairs and startle them all out of their

senses because of an event so natural and
so uninteresting.

And that she should speak like that, and
look like that ! And set them to guess,
and all !

Only stupid old Alice ! " pouted Marjorie,
as the door, on which the eyes of the trio were
fixed, remained shut, and no portly, radiant
figure reappeared, as they half expected to see
it do, to tell them she had been hoaxing, and
that the riddle remained still unread. " Only
stupid old Alice ! It was very unkind of
mamma to disappoint us so."

Mademoiselle, however, began shortly to suspect
that there was more than met the ear in
such unkindness.

CHAPTEK XVII.

LADY OLIVIA PROSPERS.

For instance, yonder matron who appears
Softly descending in the vale of years ;
And yet with health, and constant care bestow'd,
Still comely, emhowpoint, and d la mode."

Getting, enjoying all that can be had.
Amused with trifles, and at trifles sad,
While hope still whispers in her willing ears,
Soul, thou hast goods laid up for many years.' "

Essays in Rhyme.

So now I shall be taken out for drives in the
afternoons, and Maidie will be left to walk,"
observed Bertha, presently.

In spite of all that Mademoiselle could say,
Bertha knew perfectly well which of the two
modes of exercise she in her heart preferred;
that though it was all very well to walk up and
down among the gay crowds for a time, she
often was tired and sick of it before she got
home ; and that though her brown merino frock

and cape were pretty enough for the little
parties, in the little fusty rooms, where Mademoiselle
laughed and chattered, she would fain
have exchanged the former for sapphire-blue velvet
and fur, and the latter for the brilliant
scenes which Marjorie frequented.

That you won't," retorted Miss Goldenlocks,
saucily. " You can't go with my mamma. She
won't take you."

*' I don't want her to take me ; Alice Avill
take me."

Alice may take you if she likes : I wouldn't
go with Alice ; she doesn't know any of the nice
people we know, and she wouldn't go to any of
the nice houses we go to. I shall go with my
mamma."

With your mamma," cried Bertha, in scorn.
"Who do you mean by your mamma? You
think because Lady Olivia dresses you up like a
rag-doll, and pampers you, and spoils you, that
you are bound to pretend to love her."

'' TaiseZj mon enfant'' cried Mademoiselle,
awakening from her reverie ; " Berta, what is
that you say ? Fi, done ! recollect yourself, ma
petite. What is all this for ? "

Because Alice is coming ; and I am only

telling Marjorie that she need not think that
now she is going to be let off her geography
and her verbs every day, and to be taken out at
all sorts of hours," cried Bertha, with a savage
recollection of the usual summons coming in
the morning as well as in the afternoon, of the
day before.

Oh, le pauvre enfant ! Berta, you are trop
impetuous, trop vehement. See, the little one
weeps," for the blue eyes were filling, and Mademoiselle,
in common with everybody else, gave
in the moment Marjorie cried. *' Oh, Berta,
Berta, I am ashamed for you. Do not mind,
my beetle Marjorie ; she is vexed, and knows not
what she speaks of. We will learn the geographic
and the verbes another day, all the better
for having these nice little drives and parties
first. Who can work without play ? ''

' Souviens toi, mon amiss she Avould whisper,
aside, 'that if the little one goes with such
naughty words to the belle mere, we have to be
blamed,  I as well as you ; then Miladi is no
more gracieuse, and I have no leave to purchase
the little mofF with tassels which did you so delight
in the shop window yesterday. Say no
more to Marjorie, foolish one."

Alice came, and Alice was received with open
arms ; while, for the next two days, rings at the
door-bell were incessant, and meant milliners,
dressmakers, and parcels of all sizes and shapes.
Miss Newbattle was rigged out from top to toe,
and looked charming.

Next was arranged a little dinner-party, and
a select afternoon ; after which, in rapid succession,
followed drives, rides, going out in the
evening,  Miss Newbattle's name everywhere,
and Mr Pollaxfen's. Mr Pollaxfen was Monsieur
Silverstick.

He came about the house more than ever
now, and was properly presented to Mademoiselle,
who was always, as Lady Olivia said, creditable,
and to whom she invariably made a
point of introducing her guests in French.
Mademoiselle found Miladi's French adorable 
though it gave her a curious sensation at the
back of her neck to hear it. She would, however,
smile valorously, and reply in her broken
English, which permitted Miladi the double
pleasure of comprehending and correcting. It
did not strike Lady Olivia as curious that she
never needed correction ; and yet she would
hardly have trusted herself, alone and unaided,

to reside and make her way in a foreign country.
That, she would not; but still she did
like to talk the charming, expressive language
occasionally, and avowed that with une vrai
Parisienne it was a pleasure to exchange so
much as a passing observation. When in company
she was wont to forget, and begin a sentence
with '' Tenez, mes amis" and then break
off to laugh, and protest they had such a strict
martinet of a governess at home, that they
dared not for their lives talk anything but the
language of languages in her presence.

Mademoiselle was a first-class piece of show
at present in her ladyship's estimation ; and
aware that she was being trotted out, the sharp-eyed
little brunette would shake out her feathers,
rise to the occasion, and gallantly do
her best,  chatter and bend to order when
brought into prominence, and subside into silence
and devotion to the luncheon-table, precisely
when the right moment for doing so
arrived.

"It is her dinner, you know'' Lady Olivia
would put in a considerate aside. "Mademoiselle
gives each dish its due consideration. The
French are invariably particular, and, between

ourselves, our good Mademoiselle is un peu
gourmande. Mais que voulez-vous it is her
only fault."

She thought it a most respectable one, as
well as convenient, since it did not appear to
her that any one could be thus assiduous and
discriminating at the board, and be good for
much else at the same time. She did not consider
that some minds are capable of giving attention
to more than one subject at once.

Whilst Mademoiselle was engrossed by her
sauce and her tippets, was it likely that she
should note anything of the little scene which
was passing between Alice and Mr Pollaxfen '?

While her long fingers were picking, and
peeling, and popping her walnuts into her
sherry, who could suppose that the nice fresh
fruit was not the first object with her for the
moment,  still less that she let that whole nut
fall from her hand under the table, in order
that she might see how Lady Olivia's pretty
speech was taken ?

No one,  no one : how Miladi would have
stared could she have seen what took place in
Mademoiselle's private apartment presently !
Mademoiselle was dancing about the floor.

'' Je n'ai pas invente la poudre," cried the
clever creature, in ecstasy, " inais je pense ce
que je pense. Je pense que M. Pollaxfen n'a
pas une femme. Hold!"  with, shocking to
relate, her forefinger at her nose,  '' fy suis !
HoUr'

So fairly had she hit the mark, that she had
no need then nor afterwards to veer to the right
or the left of it. Let us go back a little and
see.

Mr Pollaxfen was young, rich, and unmated.
He had come to Brighton knowing nobody, and
had stumbled on Lady Olivia Newbattle at the
outset.

Here was a prize fallen at her feet. She
looked around, and saw an open field and no
competitors : none but herself knew the mine
which she had sprung, and which she strenuously
concealed from view, even from the view
of her daily associates.

She took sweet counsel with herself, and
weighed the matter well.

Why should she, having a marketable commodity
to dispose of, wait for the opening of
the Great Fair? Why not steal a march on
the other buyers and sellers, by coming to terms

privately with a dealer '? Most satisfactory
bargains were made in this way. A great deal
of trouble and expense was saved ; and though
she had pledged her word that Alice should be
in the whirl of the next London season, that
was not to say that she might not be both introduced
and presented  on her marriage.

As to Mr Pollaxfen, he was short, squab,
stuffy-looking,  he would assuredly not fail to
admire Miss Newbattle, who was slim and fair.
He was astray and lost among the mob,  he
would surely hail with effusion a guiding hand
out of it. He had nobody to care for,  he
would accept the one provided for him.

At the end of half-a-dozen days she had all
this in her mind's eye ; but she waited another
week in order to make tolerably sure, before
taking such a step as sending for her stepdaughter
to come all the way from Scotland,
that she would not have brought her on a fool's
errand.

Mr Pollaxfen was well watched, and the conclusion
was satisfactory.

He agreed with his patroness in thinking that
there was not a girl in Brighton worth looking
at ; he found the place abominably slow ; he

thought of taking himself off if nothing better
turned up ;  the fact being, that people had
not found him out, and he was neglected on
all hands.

Lady Olivia knew what she was about inconsequence.
He was not honoured with introductions
 passed on to Lady This and Lady
That  set afloat on the gay stream, as he could
have been by a touch, a breath.

Nothing of the sort.

He was sympathised and condoled with, and
kept close.

He thought it quite a hit getting himself
established in the back seat of the carriage of a
lady of rank and ton, and seeing her saluted by
the great " cards " of the place. He was willing
to take his fashion at second-hand in this manner,
and to believe that all was as she pointed
out ; that the people they saw and met were so
stupid, there was really nothing afoot worth
going to ; that the balls were so dull that she
had felt it was not worth while to ask for an
invitation for him ; and that concerts and
"afternoons" no young man would care for.

He did not quite understand, but he swallowed
it wholesale.

He went to the public assemblies, and certainly
did not find them amusing. The few partners
he could muster found out that he danced
badly, and flew from him to the arms of the
officers with whom the place was swarming.

He could not even find time to tell them that
he had two country-seats, and a house in Town,
possessions beyond probably what any other
man in the room could offer,  and they would
not have cared if he had.

He should have told his tale to the mammas,
and he avoided the mammas.

He did not know his business at all, nor how
speedily such a communication would have set
him on his feet ; and it is even possible that
had he been enlightened, he would have refused
to accept the position pointed out. He wanted
to get on his feet without assistance, to make
his way by his own merits. He wanted to be
in the thick of the game,  to be flying round
and round with the girl in blue, or sitting in
the window-recess with the girl in pink. These
beauties would not look at him. No wonder
that after a time he did not find them worth
looking at.

Then he had to fall back upon the theatre ;

and though the theatre was well enough, it
became objectionable because of the feeling that
he was there since he could get on nowhere
else.

A fortnight of such reflections was enough for
any man. He was disgusted with the place,
and was about to retire from such unhappy-hunting
- grounds, when he came to see Lady-olivia
and tell her all about it, one quiet
Sunday afternoon.

'' Oh no," cried she, when the announcement
was made. " My dear Mr Pollaxfen, you don't
say so ! I am in despair. Positively you must
take back your words. I cannot spare you, and
I must tell you why. Here is my eldest stepdaughter.
Miss Newbattle,  such a lovely girl,
and just out,  coming to Brighton immediately,
coming all the way from Scotland, and expecting;
endless gaieties. I shall have unbounded
trouble with her, and you must really stay to
help me. She will want to go everywhere, 
girls are insatiable, you know,  and I shall really
have to exert myself, little as I care for amusements
on my own account. I must escort her
to balls, theatres,  I don't know all what.
Think of that, and have pity''

The young man pricked up his ears.

You see," continued Lady Olivia, confidentially,
" I don't mind saying it to you, Mr ,
because I feel sure you will understand
and feel as I do; and the truth is, I do not think
it is nice, the way our young women of the
present day are allowed to go on. Waltzing
away with every man they meet, without having
the smallest idea of whom or what he is !
It is a mere introduction, and then  without
our knowing anything whatever about their
partners  off they go, and we are obliged to
sit still and look on ! We have no power of
preventing it. It is a different thing altogether
when it is a friend of one's own in the question"
 softly  'some one really to be trusted

and  and for instance, you,  I could trust

my daughter with you anywhere."

C'Ha!" thought Pollaxfen, 'then I should
have a pink or a blue girl all to myself, should
I ? And the deuce take those consequential
puppies who sneered at me before ! ")

"If you would go sometimes with us," continued
Lady Olivia. " If Miss Newbattle might
sometimes begin with you, so as to get on the
floor before she was snapped up by one and

another, I should have time to look round
and "

' Yes, certainly," cried Pollaxfen, enchanted.
Delighted, I'm sure. Lady Olivia. Delighted,
of course."

And there would still be a seat for you in
the carriage."

Thanks, Fm sure, very much. I hope I
don't crowd you, though, and all that sort of
thing?"

"Not at all. So you see, you must really
not think of going away."

'' Oh, well, I won t. That's to say, if you are
sure I can be of any use, don't you know ? If
you let me go about with you and  and feel I'm
of any good ? "

It was worth the coup. She summoned Alice
by the next post.

Alice was a good deal astonished, but she
made no resistance. The sweets of power at
home were beginning to pall ; and in Lady
Olivia's letter, the gaiety, festivity, and fashion
of Brighton, which had hitherto been kept rather
in the background, were now brought forward
and dwelt upon in a manner that could not
fail to be enticing. It was argued, moreover.

that since Lady Olivia was already there, and
had made such a number of nice acquaintances,
and had found the town so much more lively
than she had expected, it was really a pity
that Alice should not reap the advantage. And
finally, she was assured that the present expedition
should in no wise interfere with, or take
the place of, her season in London.

That being understood, Alice assented readily.

Poor papa, whom she could not think of
leaving five weeks before, was now a very
secondary consideration ;  indeed, he might be
said to be out of the running altogether, for
Lady Olivia forgot to mention his name, and
Alice forgot to pounce upon the omission.

He had, however, no objection to make, and
only one amendment to propose.

Why should not Kate be recalled when Alice,
left ? He did not care to be left alone ; he
wanted somebody,  whom it was, evidently it
did not much matter.

Besides which, if deserted altogether, he would
have to write both to Brighton and to the Muir-land
Farm. Terrible to think of! By Kate's
coming  and he supposed she would now behave
herself  he would be relieved from the

VOL. II. G

necessity of conducting a correspondence with
her; and she would, moreover, undertake the
one between himself and the other members
of his family.

Kate, however, to whom Alice wrote  not
unwilling to do so without reference to Lady
Olivia  was by no means strong enough to be
removed from the Farm. Her recovery was
steadily going on ; but they durst not consider
it complete, nor expose her to the risk of losing
what ground she had gained, by making any
change in her present mode of living. Mr
Newbattle was forced to write his own letters,
and be content with making them as few ashe
could.

Nobody, indeed, wanted much of him at this
juncture  everybody everywhere being pretty
fully occupied with their own devices.

Lady Olivia's, at least, answered.

PoUaxfen was caught at once ; and having
been enlisted, as it were, under Miss New-battle's
banner from the first, he looked upon
her with an eye, not only of admiration, but
of possession.

I hope you won't find the place dull," he
began, immediately  having dropped in, as he

had arranged to do, on the morning after Alice's
arrival. " I do hope you won t find the place
dull."

Could he have seen Carnochan and the rabbits,
the endless rain, and the importance of
the post-bag, he would not have been so solicitous.
But having found Brighton wellnigh
intolerable himself, and knowing that nothing
worse could well befall him than to go through
another opening fortnight in its gay circles, he
was, in all good faith, a little uneasy.

Alice did very well : she rather fed the idea
than otherwise. Oh no ; she was sure,  kindly,
and rather more emphatically than was needful,
 she was sure, quite sure, she should not.

"There are lots of people here, you know,"
said Pollaxfen.

Yes ; so I see." Driving from the station,
she had been nearly stunned by the roar of
carts, carriages, organ - grinders, muffin - men,
and general hurly-burly, and could cordially
respond, "So I see;" but the next moment
she blushed, perceiving what he meant. " From
the papers," proceeded Miss Newbattle, easily,
I saw Brighton was full."

And  and there's lots going on, you know."

Is there ? What is going on to-night ? "

'' To-night '? Oh, by Jove ! " said Pollaxfen,
taken aback by such sharp practice. "Tonight
? Well, really, 'pon my word, I haven't
thought, you know. Concerts, and balls, and
that sort of thing, I suppose." (" Dash the
girls'' he commented, inwardly; *they can't
be quiet for a single night ! ")

I think, my dear Alice," said a soft voice
near, " unless you very much wish it, that we
will make this night our one exception. As
Mr Pollaxfen says, we have not thought about
it. We are all free, as it happens;  suppose
we dine quietly together, and talk it over?
You will not mind, my love, staying at home
for once, I am sure ; and if Mr Pollaxfen will
take pity on two lonely women "

Of course Mr Pollaxfen was charmed. "I 
I don't myself care to be always on the gad-about,
you know," he said, candidly. In his
own mind he thought it would be a great deal
nicer to be sitting comfortably in the cosy little
drawing-room with his bird in his hand, chuckling
over its capture, than even displaying so
fair a prize to curious beholders.

All things thus in training, the gentleman

was presently dismissed  his company being
superfluous that afternoon, in the press of business
which followed. Marjorie was also abandoned,
since the day was to be devoted to
shopping, and Lady Olivia affirmed that it
would not be good for the child to sit still
in the carriage outside, whilst she and Alice
were making purchases within, and that coming
in and out of the heated shops would be
still more likely to give her a chill.

Undoubtedly she was right, and her restriction
was only prudent ; but to the little one's
ear, already excited and suspicious, it seemed as
if the blight of Bertha's prophetic utterances
had already fallen.

Nor was she altogether mistaken. True, she
was still sent for, and still taken out if the day
were fine, if nothing particular were in hand, and
if Lady Olivia thought of it. But she was no
longer indispensable,  Mr Pollaxfen was everything.


He would return with the ladies from their
drive  Lady Olivia usually came home to her
own afternoon tea now ; and whilst no one else
was to be admitted, since she required a good rest
before entering on the fatigues of the evening.

and would sometimes even slip away up-stairs,
making that plea an excuse,  Mr Pollaxfen
was no intruder. He was not to go because
she did; and he liked to stay all the better
when she was not there.

In the gay evenings which followed, his highest
aspirations were gratified.

He saw himself in the long mirrors of the
ball-rooms dancing with his girl as other men
danced with theirs. He saw her admired,
looked at, and longed after, by other hungry
outcasts like unto himself as he had once been,
and he heard her refuse the hand of a heavy
dragoon.

Life could yield no more  so far.

Perhaps if he had known all, he need not
have felt that glow of triumph, that thrill of
ecstasy. For the simple truth was, that Alice,
who had never been properly taught to dance,
was mortified to find that when chance gave hera
partner who excelled, she not only could not
get on with him, but felt convinced that he
could not get on with her. She found him
tardy in beginning again after a halt. Moreover,
the idea of taking up the thread of the
dance was not alluring to herself, for being

unaccustomed to the rotatory motion, it made
her giddy, and Mr Pollaxfen seemed to be the
only person to understand this, and to see that
a little jog up and down, and a good deal of
standing about in different quarters of the room,
was the proper thing to do.

This was as much as Alice cared to undertake,
at all events ; and feeling peculiarly lightheaded
and uncomfortable at the moment of
being assailed by the monster in scarlet and
gold above alluded to, he met with a flat refusal,
to the unconcealed delight of Pollaxfen.  From
that moment she had him.

*' And it is really too bad of you, you cruel
girl," Lady Olivia would exclaim, " to rob me
of my own particular production, my discovery !
Mr Pollaxfen is quite my discovery ; no one

here knows anything about him, or " with a

shrug of her shoulders. " Before you came, you
mischievous creature, he was quite my slave,
my tame cat ; ran, fetched, and carried for me.
Now, I never have a word from him,  never.
But don't be too vain, my dear Alice ; your reign,
too, may be cut short, cherie. He is much
struck by that second daughter of Colonel Bartlett's
 the tall, handsome one. He told me

last night that she was much admired ; and that
always means that a man himself admires''

She certainly had the art of managing, where
too much delicacy of treatment was not required.
Even had PoUaxfen been aware of her
tactics, so enamoured was he of all she did, that
instead of rebelling, he would, in all probability,
have plumed himself on having so fine a woman
on his side. The aid of an earl's daughter in
his love affair was not to be thought lightly of.
With her for his mother-in-law,  dash it, he
wouldst surely be allowed to call her so ?  and
her son, the great Captain Evelyn, in the Life
Guards, for his brother-in-law, he would be able
to snap his fingers at those grinning dragoons.
A Guardsman was worth a score of dragoons.

Confound them, they would laugh at the
other sides of their mouths when they saw him
arm in arm with a swell ! They would know
how to keep civil tongues in their heads when
they found that the lady, whose dress one of
them had sworn at him for trampling upon, was
his own affianced bride !

This last incident had taken place shortly before.
Alice, with her head upon an epaulette
shoulder, had been swung past Pollaxfen, who

had stepped eagerly forward to arrest her progress,
and deliver Lady Olivia's message that time
was up. Lady Olivia, by the way, had also seen
Miss Newbattle and Captain Defour, and it was
in consequence of the sight that time was up.

In his haste, or awkwardness, her messenger
had got his foot entangled in the lady's train,
and she had fallen on the floor. We, who are
aware of Miss Newbattle's an ti waltzing proclivities,
may have a suspicion that the sudden
stoppage, and withdrawal of her partner's supporting
arm, had at least as much to do with
the accident as the detention of a flimsy muslin
skirt ; but the gallant Defour thought otherwise,
and it being after supper, the comments of that
inflamed champion of the sex were neither reserved
in quality nor stinted in quantity.

That his orbs of vision were partially to blame
was also obvious, since they mistook Pollaxfen
for a servant, and induced their valiant owner to
address him as a '* fellow," to order him out of
the room, and to implore his lovely partner to
disregard all such "imperfect int-terence."

Pollaxfen did not come the worst out of the
affair.

He said not a word, but picked up Miss Alice,

put her hand within his arm, and marched her
off, despite the stuttering imprecations and
threatening gestures of his rival.

But he could not forget, however much he
might affect to disregard these. He had been
called by an opprobrious title, and no one about
had seemed at all surprised. Was it because they
had the impudence still to look down on him ?
Something whispered that no amount of champagne
would have blinded Captain Defour into
taking Lady Olivia's son for a menial.

Well, since it was so, he burned to have
Evelyn on his side.

Of this unknown being his ideas were of the
vaguest, but they were exalted to a pitch surpassing
the veneration he had ever before felt
for mortal man ; and he now told himself that,
backed by such a personage, he could resent
suitably the insult he had received. Without
revealing the whole to one who had not been
present, and who therefore needed not to be
informed of aught that was offensive to the
speaker, he could easily introduce the name of
Defour, and could then proceed by degrees to
poison the mind of his future relative against
the drunken scoundrel. It would be a fine

thing to do, and he ruminated with impish
satisfaction upon divers things that people
might be said to have said, and whispered, and
nodded about. He thought he could put quite
enough matter together to settle the dragoon
conclusively, if only he could gain Evelyn's ear
and aid.

The chief point was, would Evelyn abet him,
and take his part ? If he would, and would be
as kind, gracious, and jolly as his mother, there
was nothing that he would not do for Evelyn.
In return for being pushed on, and held up, he
would make the grandee welcome to the best of
everything he possessed. By turns he saw
himself enacting the part of town and country
host : in London waiting  and keeping a whole
circle waiting  for the honoured guest who
should grace his best dinner-parties ; later on in
the season, escorting his visitor over fields of
stubble to the hottest corner; swearing at his
keepers for empty bags if needful ; if not, pooh-cooling
good ones as the inevitable result of
having so renowned a shot in their company.
Evelyn should have his own rooms both in
Palace Gardens and in Lincolnshire. He should
ask whom he chose, and they should be free to

come and go. Gad ! he should be master, and
more !

The idea was intoxicating, and possessed him
completely.

The more he reflected upon it, the more he
revelled in it, the more he thirsted for the hour
of his triumph.

Dash those epaulette boobies,  he could twirl
and pirouette as well as they if he chose, and he
would like to see their faces when it came out
what he could do besides. He could bring down
his bird.

And it was about time he let fly.

Chapter XVIII.

HOMELY PLEASURES IN THE OLD FARMHOUSE.

*' Those joys clasp us with a friendlier arm, which steal upon us when
we do not look for them."  Pelham.

Untoward winds, however, now set in from a
new and unexpected quarter.

On the very evening when Pollaxfen's clumsiness
in the ball-room called forth the abusive
contempt of the heavy dragoon, and when subsequently
he made up his mind to be revenged,
and that speedily, on the ill-nurtured sot,  on
that very night, a little later on, Lady Olivia
penned him a note forbidding him the house.

The ladies, on their return from the ball, had
been confronted on the staircase by a florid
little elderly gentleman, who had rapidly explained
that he had been summoned to the
house during her ladyship's absence, by the
alarming illness of one of the young ladies.

Both Lady Olivia and Alice had at once
thought of Marjorie.

It was Bertha, however, who, persistently ignored
as a rule, had on this occasion contrived
to give herself prominence. She had caught
the scarlet-fever, which, unknown to Lady Olivia,
was unusually prevalent in the town, more
especially about such parts of it as had been
more than once visited of late by Mademoiselle
and her charge ; and after several days of unacknowledged
misery, the child had all at once
become so ill as to terrify her governess. It
had been easy to pooh-pooh, and prescribe for de
beetle chill which the foolish petite had caught
by forgetting her neckerchief on the so cold
afternoon ; but it was not so trifling: a matter
when the shivering girl refused all food, had
a skin like fire, and began to wander in her
speech. Inquiries and future supervision must
be endured ; the doctor must be sent for, and
the verdict he gave was, that the case was tolerably
severe, and that the house must be put
into immediate quarantine.

**0f all the tiresome things!" cried Lady
Olivia, inwardly ; and as for Mademoiselle, she
had a reprimand which, though far short of what

she deserved, was the sharpest her patroness
had bestowed on any one for months. Carelessness,
reprehensible and disastrous, there must
have been somewhere ; the child had been taken
where she had no business to be in the first
instance, and had then been neglected, and the
malady allowed to take hold in a manner it
could not have done, had it been brought inter
proper notice at once.

It was all true  truer, perhaps, than the speaker
was aware of : she said it because she felt she
must say something,  must let out some of the
inward steam which was boiling and fretting
under a sense of restriction and injury, rather
than because she expected to gain any real
advantage from a scolding which was decidedly
too late in the day.

And Mademoiselle, who knew all this,  knew
both why she was rated, and how well she merited
the rating,  apparently let it all sink in 
only reserving to herself the right of letting
it sink through. With a little shake of her
petticoats, and a tiny shrug of her shoulders,
behold. Lady Olivia s rebuke had left no trace
on that sandy, slippery conscience 1 She was
sorry for Bertha, sorry for herself, and honestly

sorry to have put a stop to the fun which she
foresaw for one and all from Mr Pollaxfen's
suit : but sorry for her misconduct, repentant of
her entrust worthiness 1 Not a whit.

Nor was Lady Olivia more single-minded.
She was annoyed, vexed, and put out  she was
not tenderly solicitous.

Kate's broken blood-vessel had given hera
kind of sorrow ; Marjorie's delicacy had
affected her with a kind of anxiety ; but that
Bertha  plain, insignificant, uninteresting Bertha
 should arrogate to herself the right of
thwarting her step-mother at the very zenith
of her success, was beyond everything outrageous.


Had Pollaxfen spoken, or had she been absolutely
certain that he would speak, Lady Olivia
might have been more calm ; but matters stood
just at this point, that it seemed as if a hair's-breadth
might turn the scale. Parents know
the moment,  it is an awful one.

All going on prosperously, every meeting productive,
 nothing absolutely accomplished, yet
everything to be hoped for,  and then, just as
the vessel, full sail, is speeding joyously forwards
on her way, to have her thrown on her

side, helpless, powerless, and etiquette-bound 
oL, it passes the patience of women !

And this woman was, as has been shown, amiable
only so long as she was omnipotent. She
could have shaken the hapless invalid, instead
of having to inquire, with a decent appearance
of maternal feeling, after her state ; and, used
to fiction as she was, it was almost beyond her
powers to keep up the pretence of its being on
Bertha's account that both she and Alice were
so much depressed.

*' We cannot but be anxious, Dr Weathered.
Pray, when do you expect the crisis ? How long
does the fever usually run ?

'' Oh, we won't talk of a crisis. Lady Olivia.
It has been a smart attack, but your young
lady is getting through it nicely''

Is she in any danger '?

"No,  certainly not ; so far as wee can see at
present."

You cannot say how soon she will begin to
mend  "

I cannot say that for a day or two yet."

'' It will be a long time, I presume, before 
before \ "

Not so very long. In a week or so "

VOL. II. H

"Dear!" cried Lady Olivia, joyfully, "only
a week or so ? I thought, I imagined, scarlet-fever
was much more serious'

Oh no, my lady,  not in a straightforward
case like Miss Bertha's. It will be only a matter
of nursing and patience after the next week or
two. Keeping up her strength,  that will bethe
main point. If there is no relapse, no drawback,
she will be able to sit up a little each day,
and so on, and so on ; gently, gently. Change
of air, from one room to another, is a great
refreshment; you will find a patient keeps up
her spirits better when she is moved about "

(" Her spirits ! " thought Lady Olivia, who
saw herself duped, for she had imagined he
meant that the whole thing would be over,
and the house free again, after a week or two.
Her spirits ! She has taken a nice way of
keeping up mine") Aloud  "But, my good
doctor, you will excuse me, I know, for pressing
to have some sort of answer, some idea as to
when we may look for a real termination of
this illness 1 I am here, as you see, all alone
with the girls, away from my husband and
home, and I cannot but be anxious to know
about my return ; Mr Newbattle will want to

know if we cannot fix some time or other
for it."

"We can't do that, Lady Olivia," very
decidedly.

Can you not even hold out hopes '? "
Oh yes, very good hopes. If all goes on
favourably ; no cold caught, no return of the
fever, no one else,"  he beamed pleasantly over
this,  " above all, no one else catching the infection
"

Lady Olivia gasped.  " Catching the infection
? Dear, dear, dear ! There is that to bethought
of, too. Is it likely to run through the
house ? "

*' No need why it should,  no need at all ; by
using disinfectives, and taking ordinary care.
It  ah  usually does; but that we need not
take into account. The present, my lady, the
present, is all we have to deal with ; the future
we must leave to the future," conscious of a
pious sentiment.

And in the meantime we must go nowhere ? "
And nobody must come to you."
He left Lady Olivia as gloomy as ever.
There is no need to dwell upon the doleful
time which now supervened.

Mademoiselle had the best of it; for Lady-olivia,
unable to pick up chat and amusement
for herself, and debarred even from her usual
resource of letter-writing, since people do not
care to receive letters from an infected house,
of which fact Dr Weathered considerately
reminded her ladyship, when he found
her one day at her davenport,  Lady Olivia,
we say, being deprived of all occupations but
her daily aimless drive, was very willing that
poor Mademoiselle, whose vivacity and intelligence
now made her in divers ways an excellent
companion, should keep up her health by daily
walks, during which she regretted out all sorts
of odds and ends of gossip, and permitted herself
to observe numberless small details of dress
and novelty wherewith to regale Miladi. During
their term of imprisonment Miladi quite
depended upon the "sociable creature'

Do as they would, however, the days dragged.

Brighton was no longer attractive ; they were
shunned by their acquaintances, and the doorbell
seldom rang. The only comfort was, that
no one else fell sick, and that, though each
morning the doctor insisted on a special review
of Marjorie, ran his eye over Alice, and even,

in the plenitude of his dissatisfaction, made inquisition
into the appetite and nerves of Mademoiselle,
he was fain to own that they were all
in good condition.

A month passed : Bertha was well, and all
eyes turned eagerly to Carnochan.

Their return was fixed for the last week
of February; and a few days before it took
place, Kate was, with infinite care, many injunctions,
and not a few tears, restored to her
home and her father.

Yes, Kate was there, and not even to herself
did Lady Olivia say that she would have been
equally well pleased to have found her still
absent,  that, had a prolonged stay on the
coast been recommended, permission to remain
at the Farm would have been granted readily ;
but it must be confessed that she looked at
Bertha with no friendly eye as she reflected
that, but for her, she need never again have had
the whole four of her troublesome daughters at
once in hand.

Marjorie, having been wild and unruly on the
homeward journey, was included, it will thus be
seen, in the category. Undoubtedly, there were
four,  each as bad as the other, at this juncture.

They were really a set to have to deal with,
an untamable, unmanageable crew.

What with their delicate constitutions and
wayward dispositions, their beautiful persons
and untutored minds, they were a quartet whom
no one would need to envy her, if they knew all.

It was well enough to be complimented on
pretty Alice and lovely Marjorie, and to feel
that she had in reserve a beauty surpassing
either of them : but good-looks will not keep
people in good order; and however tractable
and amenable to authority Miss Newbattle
might have been at Brighton,  where, indeed,
Alice had fallen into her stepmother's views
with surprising docility and aptitude,  it was
plain that the temptation to be otherwise than
pleased and obedient had been absent. Lady
Olivia's superiority of fashionable experience
was indisputable ; and there could be no precedents
invaded, no ancient laws set aside in
that new and untried region,  as had been the
case among the old familiar scenes.

Being of importance, and having everything
done avowedly for her, and on her account
alone, it was no wonder that Alice could be
complaisant. There was even nothing to be sly

about. She could not circumvent Lady Olivia,
when Lady Olivia was solely bent on furthering
her own desires,  nor cut in before her
step-mother, when the step-mother herself stood
back. She even grew a little ashamed, and
moderately attentive to the elder lady ; and
there was never a difference between them.

But at Carnochan, unless Mr Pollaxfen
speedily made his appearance, clouds were
sure to creep up over the landscape again.

Kate, meantime, had been spending a peaceful,
if not a very lively, winter at the old farmhouse.

It was not such a winter as Evelyn had
drawn to tempt her fancy. There had been
no daring, frolicsome excursions by sea and land,
no exploits to thrill her pulses, no moonlight
scenes to make her heart beat ; but to one
who had just escaped a great danger, and come
out of a great trial, the even tenor of the life
she had been leading throughout the last few
months had been healing, restoring, all-sufficient.

She seemed to require no companionship
beyond that of her faithful nurse, and the sensible,
affectionate Lizzie. Lizzie could read with
her, and enjoy, in her way, the books which

were to Kate her all in all ; they studied together,
making steady progress in German and
French, and devoting a portion of each day to
some standard work in one or other of those
languages. They rubbed up what little of the
sciences they already knew ; and Miss Comline,
who had more taste for these than for works of
the imagination, pushed ahead vigorously, dragging
her pupil after her by the sheer force of
her own energy.

An application for such books as were necessary
had been made to Mr Newbattle, and
granted : he had even, in the pleasure of being
able to say 'eyes," without being called upon todo
anything more, bidden them stint themselves
in nothing which could give the invalid pleasure,
or do her good.

Under this head, then, could they include a
small telescope ?

It must be confessed that it was wanted more
for Miss Comline's benefit than for that of her
companion; but then, since Lizzie sighed for the
possession,  not openly, but still Kate knew she
did,  to gratify the desire became at once a
prime object with one who loved to give, even
when to generosity was not added gratitude.

She wanted the telescope. She, for herself, 
because it would give her dear Lizzie pleasure.
Therefore, why not order it ? What was a telescope
? She would have said, '' What was a
coach-and-six 1 " with equal contempt, and equal
knowledge.

But still, something whispered that Kate
Newbattle, who stood so sternly out for truth on
matters great and small, must be steady to herself
in the slightest, and it ended in a separate
request being forwarded, and the telescope being
sent down by the squire's orders, almost before
they had allowed themselves to expect his
answer.

No answer, indeed, ever came. He had been
talking to Maxwell, his lawyer, with Kate's letter
in his hand,  had told him what was wanted,
since inquiries had been made after the invalid,
and Maxwell, who happened to be travelling
up to Edinburgh that very afternoon, went, in
his business-like way, at once to Die's, and
executed his commission. But for this lucky
chance, no more might have been heard of the
telescope, which appeared, however, next day at
the farm.

It gave unending pleasure.

They had it out on every clear night, carefully
set, and bright as polish could make the brass.
By its side they would learnedly discourse and
quote, search their ' Keith on the Globes,' turnup
references, and draw plans and charts of the
heavens, till the farmer would aver that " it beat
a' " to hear them. He would listen, at times,
with his mouth wide open, and a lurking smile
about the corners, betokening incredulity and
amusement, not unmingled with derision,  but
he never interfered.

If bidden himself to come and have a peep,
he dutifully obeyed, resting his hands on his
knees, screwing up one eye, and feeling involuntarily
for the trigger, as the attitude reminded
him of fingering his ancient firelock ; but he
never could see what he was told he ought to
see.

He liked, however, to look, uttering the while
short exclamations of wonder and pleasure; and
encouraged by even so much appreciation, they
would further attempt to enlighten his understanding,
and to this end would cast about
for something easy, some such simple sop as
Jupiter, as compared with our Earth "  they
always now talked of " our Earth," and wrote it

with a large E,  "as compared with our Earth,
Jupiter is the size of an orange compared to a
pea : the sun, as compared with both, is the size
of a globe two feet in diameter."

This, however, was too much. He would not
demur to the most hideous statement,  they
might say what they would, and he would
respect their feelings, and repress his own, 
but, once out of the ken of these fanatics, and
safe among his stacks and his yard, his black
bull and his " owes," he would laugh until his
throat was sore. It was as good as a play,
he thought.

Ay, ay," he would complacently agree,
when it was pointed out that the colour was
coming back to Missy's cheek, and the spring
to her step, '' she's no' that bad. She's no'
twining. She's but a pair bit gloit at the best
o' times; but what o' that 1 We nun be thankful'
for what we can get. There's nae croichlin
that I can hear, and nae pingin that I can see.
Nathan' to gar us fear, praise the Lord ! And
gif it's the books and dislike that set Missy
up, and she's no' true to learn sic nonsense, e'en
let her hae her fill, say I. We nun cross her at
no gait. But, preserve us ! a wheen idle havers

to tak' that baud o' a bonnie lassie,  it's beyond
me ! Na, na ; I'm over auld ; I canna come
Jupiter."

Whenever they tried him again after that, he
had but the one answer : " Fm over auld ; I
canna come Jupiter."

Sometimes of an evening, or in the "fore-nights,"
as he called them, when darkness drove
him within doors before supper-time, he would
listen to Lizzie's reading, especially if Kate chose
for them a drama.

There was something in Shakespeare that he
said he could " tak' baud o'." ' Hamlet ' " garret
him grue"  and apparently it was a pleasant
sensation ; the argumentative eloquence of the
rival orators in ' Julius Caesar ' engaged his attention
wholly, not a point made being lost upon
him ; but the ' Merchant of Venice,' take it all in
all, was the favourite.

In it he was absorbed, to the exclusion of
every other interest.

If a* door creaked, or the dog stirred, or his
dame did but alter the band on her spinning-wheel,
while it was going on, his hand was up,
and his " Stop a wee, I diana catch it. Your
pardon, Lizzie, but that noise  and I'm dull o'

hearing', mind ye," made the reader go over the
passage afresh.

He sighed, he groaned, he breathed heavily.
He took heart of grace, he cocked his head on
one side, he cried " Aha ! "

The head pressed forwards, the eyes distended,
the lips protruded.

Finally, as the climax was revealed, he threw
himself back in his seat, dashed his hands down
upon his knees, and laughed till the roof rang
again. ' That dings a',  that dings a' ! What
wad hae thocht it,  what wad hae believed it 1
That deil o' a Jew,  weel gudewife, there's nae
other word for him, glower as ye may,  to hae
his cantrips coupifc, after a' ! Gude guide us !
To hae his cantrips coupit, after a' !

They did not try their audience with ' Romeo
and Juliet,'  though perhaps, if any one had
known what were the pages over which a certain
dark head was most frequently bent in
private, it might have been found that they
were none of those with which Mr Comline was
regaled.

There would be a wonderful shine in the girl's
eyes after those solitary readings : the book
would lie open on her lap afterwards, while she

looked no more at it, but gazed steadfastly into
the dim distance across the waters, her lips moving
softly the while, as though she were replying
to sweet sounds and whispers. Her cheek
would warm if questioned as to how her quiet
hour had been spent. Why should it ?

Lizzie could not guess what these things
meant: she had no eye for such subtle, shadowy
signs. There was surely no harm, nothing of
which to be ashamed, in being found engaged
in the study of one of Shakespeare's masterpieces
; she even proposed that they should
occupy an evening with it,  Kate should be
Juliet, and she herself Romeo.

Why did Kate turn from the proposition with
an excuse, and almost a shudder ?

It hurt her friend. It seemed to intimate
that Miss Comline's rendering of the scenes
would fall too far below the ideal formed by
such a lover of the piece. The point was not
pressed,  for indeed poor honest Lizzie felt the
rebuff to the bottom of her heart, and was never
known to mention the subject again,  but even
when awakened to the fire in her sweet friend's
eye and the enthusiasm on her brow, she could not
penetrate their cause. They told of a world into

which she could not enter, and of hidden springs
whose very existence to her were unknown.

On higher and holier subjects, also, the young
girl's lips were sealed to all but her old dame.
To granny alone could be confided every new
fear, doubt, and anxiety, since to granny alone
had been whispered the secret of her heart.
Counsels of sympathy from one who knew not
all, from whom the root of the matter had been
kept back, could be of but small, if indeed of
any value ; and for Kate  the shrinking, sensitive
Kate  to have intrusted to a second person
the story of her ill-fated love  and that person
Lizzie Comline  oh, not for worlds could she
have done it !

What, Lizzie ? Lizzie, who was so excellent
as a daughter, so solidly superior as a companion,
so irreproachable as a preceptress; Lizzie,
who had never needed to be found fault with
by any mortal being, and who, it might be presumed,
must have found some difficulty in finding
a shortcoming wherewith to charge herself,
tell Lizzie of her weakness and her woe !
Honestly, she could have poured forth her tale
with a great deal more of confidence and comfort
into the huge red 'slug" of Mr Comline.

There are times when common-sense, of the
kind wherewith the farmer's daughter was permeated
through and through, is of less than no
avail, and in the present instance it was positively
de trop. It was too much for this poor
Kate. She knew what it portended, or rather
what would have been its certain verdict, had
her trembling lips whispered the truth. She
would have been told that she had " done her
duty," which, in Miss Comline's estimation,
amounted to an adequate amount of praise for
any sacrifice. She had done her duty,  that
was all.

And, alas ! it was not all. There was still a
past to be dwelt upon, with feelings so mingled
that they could not pain ; and there was a
future, which was wont to steal unawares into
lingering day - dreams, and startle into wild
blushes and shamefaced ness, when its presence
there was recognised. There were times when
the vigilant guard over thoughts sweet and
dangerous, which she surely meant to keep always,
and did keep truthfully and valiantly
from day to day,  there were times, however,
when such a watch could be maintained no
longer. She could not lie awake at nights, listening

to the " sough '' of the wind among the
cliffs, and the ceaseless beat of the heavy
breakers on the shore, without thinking of
Evelyn. How often had he bade her hearken
to the weird sounds ! How inseparably were
they henceforth connected with his memory !
This and that tender look and tone had fallen
to her lot while gazing with him over that restless
waste of ocean which lay stretched beneath
her little window. He had been wont occasionally
to unbar the shutters of the old parlour
below, and call to her to come and look at the
scene. At such moments almost each of the
few words he uttered would be fraught with a
significance all its own.

And how she had counted over her treasures
afterwards ; seeing the smile and hearing the
whisper again and again, throughout the dark
hours that followed ; weaving them fantastically
into her dreams, when sleep at length overtook
her fevered frame ; changing them sometimes to
cruel mockery, sometimes to idle fripperies, but
waking ever with the true delight hidden safe
in her heart,  her real, absolute, priceless possession
!

Might not an eye, albeit a watery one, be

VOL. II. I

cast now and then over such happy hours ?
Must her tears be treason ?

Assuredly in Lizzie's judgment they would
have been. She would have been brought back
as an erring lamb to the fold; she would
have been gently rebuked,  her spirit braced
anew, according to the youthful Calvinist's
idea of such a refrigeration ; and for the
future she would have been kept to her guns
with a rigour that would have been all the
more oppressive that it was intangible and
righteous.

But from granny nothing was hid ; granny
never looked surprised ; granny guessed wherein
its little book tied by the spun thread, nestled
the rose which she had herself found under
Evelyn's pillow after his departure, and had then
put wonderingly into Missy's hands : granny
knew all, and said nothing.

'Deed, she was but a slow auld wife herself',
and took her time about a' thing ; an' 'deed, she
thocht it was the best way. "Naethin'/' she
observed to herself, '' was ever weel dune that
bit to be dune a' at ance ; an' what for sold she
be in a peyvee about her bairn *? The Lord an'
His Holy Bible, an' time an' the telescope, gude

fresh butter an' eggs, an' the bright spring sunshine,
wad do the work."

'' Bide a bit ; "  she would further nod sagaciously,
and peer with merry eyes over the rims
of her spectacles as she noted one little improvement
after another. ' Bide a bit : the end's no
yet; an' it's for nae hand but that o' the Ane
that's abuse a' ken, to take the helm heft, an'
guide the bit bathe through the troubled waters.
What can say what's in keeping' for or Missy

yet?"

Kate began to go out and about again ;  to
creep down to the shore when the sun was
warm enough, to wander on Lizzie's arm over
the heathery moor above, and to come in from
her rambles hungry and sleepy like an infant.
By-and-by she went with fresh vigour to her
tasks. To Shakespeare was added Chaucer and
Spenser; to Schiller, Goethe; to Keith, herschel
and Davy.

There was nothing vulgar nor debasing in
such a life. Lady Olivia needed not to have
been surprised, as she was, to find that after six
months spent among the lonely Galloway moorlands,
her step-daughter had not deteriorated.
The atmosphere which Kate had been breathing

VOL. II. K

was purer, healthier, more refined, than that
from which she and Alice had come. The mind
that had been straining after thoughts beyond
its own narrow range, was not likely to have
shrunk and dwindled ; the soul that had been
touched by a live coal from off the altar of the
Most High, could not thereafter cling more
closely to the dull earth.

All was otherwise.

Kate was enriched in mind, lovelier in person,
transformed in spirit.

'but dreadfully delicate - looking'' reflected
her eldest sister, who at this juncture felt so
entirely superior to the other three, that she
classed them all as children in her own mind.
"Dreadfully thin and delicate - looking. And,
good heavens, what a gown ! "

She was truly sorry for Kate, and affectionate
towards her, when it came out that the bustle
of reunion, with all its attendant emotions, had
proved too much for the fragile form, who had
scarcely voice for speech, or limbs for support,
when she stepped forward as the carriages drew
up,  and that almost immediately afterwards
restoratives had to be put in force and repose
resorted to. She was quite grieved to find that

their father,  and Mr Newbattle looked, to
confess the truth, rather put out of his way,
was the only addition to the party at
dinner.

He could not be got to ask questions and
follow up allusions, both of which Kate could
have done if she would. Poor Kate !

With pity was mingled a delicious sense of
patronage. It would be only kind to amuse
the poor girl ; and since she had had none of
the sport, she should at least enjoy it secondhand.
She should hear the whole story from
beginning to end. Even the preliminaries, extending
to the dull wet morning on which
Lady Olivia's letter had been received, to its
effect upon her own mind, to the journey up,
and the first impressions of the gay watering-place,
 even these should be fully entered into.
She would skip nothing, since everything was
of importance. How could she expect her auditor
to comprehend this and that, unless all
that led up to the situation had been properly
explained ?

About Mr Pollaxfen, for instance, and that
little scene between him and Captain Defour.
Unless Mr Pollaxfen had been simpered about

beforehand, and Kate had been given to understand
how much he had been with them, and
what pretty speeches he had made, and what
this one had said, and that other had thought,
and what she (Alice) had felt throughout it all,
unless these details had been properly presented
to the mind of her sister, the significance
of the whole affair would be lost.

And Alice had thought a vast deal about
Captain Defour and the ball-room encounter, 
quite as much as PoUaxfen had. His very
name had thereafter caused her to perk her
head and bridle ; and although it is quite possible
that the gallant captain would have been
unable to tell the next morning whom the lady
was with whom he had been dancing when a
vulgar fellow ran up against him and knocked
him down (such was his recollection of the
affair), both the blooming Miss Newbattle and
her veritable admirer set him down thenceforth
as the defeated aspirant.

Alice had soon been able to call to mind
numerous occasions on which Captain Defour
had shown jealousy of Mr PoUaxfen ; and in the
light of the new revelation, she was nearly sure
that it had only been the terrors of such a dangerous

rival which had prevented his proposing
to her long before.

Even Lady Olivia had smiled to herself as she
encouraged the idea. Anything to give PoUax-
fen consequence ; and if the young lady chose
to take the matter thus, very well  very well
indeed. She had not herself noticed anything,
but she was not obliged to say she had, and
it was easy to assent, and leave to her stepdaughter
the trouble of putting together conjectures
and conjuring up reminiscences.

That sort of thing Alice was clever at, and
with practice her memory and ingenuity developed.
She had quite a creditable little history
now wherewith to regale her poor sickly
sister; and felt, to the depths of her soul, the
glory of posing as a heroine to one who was
as innocent as a babe unborn of the meaning
of the word except in books, and on whose
sympathy she could certainly count,  since, if
Kate was anything, she was romantic.

Balls and routs, concerts and drums, might
not go for much with a novice who had never
attended one of them ; but let her introduce a
whisper of Pollaxfen, and give a hint of all the
hopes and fears, heartburning and jealousies.

connected with his name, and she could reckon
on seeing her auditor flush and pant as of old,
when Kate " spouted poetry in the dark." No
better recipient of a confidence of this kind could
be wished for ; ai:id with the delightful importance
of having one to make, and the conviction
that it would be so happily received, it was hard
to have to wait even until the following morning
for the conference.

It may seem strange that she should have
been so eager, so blind, and so satisfied,  but she
was all three. To have had a satellite of her
own, a presence following her wherever she went,
an arm at her disposal in all assemblies, bouquets
and opera-boxes unlimited, had been quite
enough at the time ; to have the recapitulation
of her pleasures was sufficient thereafter ; and
although she felt that it had been grossly stupid
and tiresome of Bertha to defraud her of more, 
of the honour and glory of returning home a
fiancee after her first campaign,  still, even
as it was, she could plume herself upon the
past, and hope with tolerable confidence in
the future.

She was early in her sister's room next day.

Kate did not rise till noon, and the sunshine

made the apartment bright and pleasant, even
without the fire which blazed in the grate.

' How comfortable you look ! " said Alice,
taking her seat on the bed. " I see you have
had your breakfast, so now I am going to stay
a little, and tell you all we have been doing. I
shall begin at the beginning, and you must say
when you are tired,  for I know you are not to
be tired,  and then I will stop, for the present,
and take up the thread of my discourse again
another day. Eeally," with a laugh of retrospective
excitement,  " really, where there is
so much to tell, I hardly know where to start
from. What do you most care to hear about ? "

(" What you are least likely to tell me," said
Kate to herself, though outwardly she only
leaned back on her pillow, and smiled so gently
that Alice was afresh startled into an uneasy
feeling of subdued compassion. '' No one will
think I have any interest in Eupert, and I may
have to wait, wait, wait for long before I hear
his name. And when I do hear it, worse still ;
for I have promised not to betray myself, and
I must keep my word. Alice, you may
have much to tell, but I have at least as much
to hide ! ")

here's an ugly mess ! "

"Perhaps the truest way to quench ou-t passion is to kindle up another.
" Whetstone.

The reader will judge whether Miss Newbattle,
however, did not also on some points choose
to keep her own counsel. She certainly did not
accurately describe Pollaxfen : he figured prominently
throughout. the narrative, but he was
not personally dwelt upon, and it soon appeared
that whatever he might be or become to the
narrator, he was at present only one of the innumerable
accessories of her triumph. She had
meant to make rather more of him to Kate,
feeling by no means sure of Kate's attention and
sympathy otherwise,  but now, when it appeared
that her sister was not only tolerant and attentive,
but fairly well amused and eager, she
threw Pollaxfen into his proper place, and

launched out hither and thither into all the
details of her three weeks' absence. It was so
delightful to find some one who knew positively
nothing of it all, and yet to whom the little
history, in all its virgin gloss, might be confided
safely.

While the business was going on,  while every
hour was occupied, and dressing, driving, dining,
and dancing was the order of each day,  the
relation of what was passing was not to bethought
of: neither time nor inclination were
to be found for the task. It had been, ** Oh
dear, poor Kate has not had a line for ages ;" or,
*' Papa really must be written to by Bertha, or
somebody;"  and no exertion followed. The
idea passed out of mind, none caring to be
reminded themselves, nor yet to stir up the
memory of another.

In consequence, only the briefest and baldest
of summaries had found their way north.

The bare mention by Alice of being "very
gay," and of being " taken about everywhere by
Lady Olivia," although it might be in a general
way satisfactory, could not be said to convey
minute impressions on the subject to either Mr
Newbattle or to his second daughter ; whilst

the notes received from the sometime prolix and
diffusive Lady Olivia herself, were confined to
limits still narrower : she made an inquiry or
two, mentioned the weather, and apologised for
being in haste.

But now  now that all the whirling, fluttering
vision had receded into the shadowy past, and
that the recollection of what it had been was all
that the fair debutante had to dwell upon, it
was a great thing to have Kate to talk to.

She looked bright and pretty as she entered
on her self-imposed task.

The whole episode had been so new, so enchanting,
so like fairyland ; the transition from
Carnochan  dull, grim, leafless, and eventless 
to Brighton, teeming with life, vivacity, and
excitement, had been so sudden  such a perfect
transformation - scene  that she could hardly
even now look back upon it without going into
raptures. Into the heart of the fray she had
been plunged at once. For her there had been
none of that miserable hanging, nameless and
friendless, on the outside of the Paradise within
view,  none of that sense of defeat and injury,
which had nearly driven PoUaxfen from the
field. She had found him there as well as Lady

Olivia, and from the moment of her arrival all
gates had been open.

With such a chaperone, and such an aide-de-camp,
she had not been in Brighton three days
before she might have been there all her life.
Her driving-suits, her ball-room trains, and her
opera-wraps, could not more entirely have converted
the exterior of the country girl into that
of the habitude du monde, than had the society
in which these had been worn recast the mind.

She was now superior to astonishment, to
admiration, to everything, on her own account
; but she was willing to excite such sensations
in those who had been less fortunate.
You have no idea," prefaced every sentence.

This poor shadowy-looking, ethereal-browed
sister, who lay back so languidly and contentedly
on her pillows, accepting, if not actually inviting,
the overflow of confidence,  verily, she,
fresh from her sickbed and her backwoods,
could have no idea of what had been going
on. What, for instance, would Kate have
thought of wearing black satin plumed hats
with scarlet bows, and pelisses all trimmed to
match, at church on Sundays, and going for a
drive after service, as on other days? How

odd it would have seemed to her to have looked
in and beheld the evenings which followed,
when Alice and Lady Olivia, all primmed up
over their good books, sat on sofas ready for
the visitors, whom it was understood might
drop in, and who certainly did drop in, to the
tune of twenty or thirty,  at which time Mademoiselle
and the little girls would come down
to tea, and there would be music  supposed to
be sacred  and conversation not by any means
equally limited.

Mademoiselle had been great on the Sunday
evenings. She had discovered with effusion
that Miladi had left behind at Carnochan the
terrible, triste Scotch Sabbath, and that she
understood, almost as well as though she had
been une vrai Parisienne, how to make the most
of the day. True, Miladi had gone to church,
but church-going was a lively affair at Brighton,
and nobody had cared to miss it. One saw
tout le monde there. One could judge how one
fashion suited the face, and another the figure.
One heard appointments made, and little invitations
whispered aside. One could observe
Mr Pollaxfen and Alice.

All this had ravished Mademoiselle, and had

not come amiss to Miss Newbattle,  but she
felt a conviction that it would have greatly
startled Kate.

She did not, therefore, enter on such scenes.
Since her auditor had for once been kind,  since
she had not checked the current of narration
by a provoking apathy, or by the invalid's
plea of weariness,  she would not, for her part,
bring forward anything distasteful.

She was indeed astonished at the patience
with which she was listened to. Even when it
was apparent that the topic did not suit, that
it had nothing in it congenial, she was invited
to go on, and polite attention filled the place of
reciprocity.

It was really strange : she could scarcely believe
her senses.

Alice did not know, that among the denizens
of that lonely region where her sister had been
sojourning, kindly interest in each other's interests
was studiously observed by one and all.
At Carnochan in the old days, although inhabitants
of one home, members of one family, each
of. the sisters had gone her own way ; none
had questioned another, nor helped another, nor
taken any manner of heed what was done by

another. Self-reliance, self-containment, had been
the regulation of their life; and however unsociable
had been such a mode of existence, it had
satisfied them, knowing, as they did, nothing
better, purer, higher.

Lady Olivia's assaults on such a system of
independence  which were on the whole well
meant and much needed, if somewhat sharply
enforced  were resented, as has been shown,
with bitterness and valour. She could not understand
their indignation ; they could not tolerate
her efforts at reform. She was unwise,
and they called her interfering ; masterful, and
they declared her cruel.

Altercations were endless, and the four at
length learned to look back upon their old
time when "a'body reigned wha could," as to
a royal immunity from every evil under the
sun.

But it had certainly never entered the head of
Alice  as it had not entered that of Kate until
within the last three months  to consider that
a family of dissimilar tastes, habits, and fancies
might enter cheerfully into each other's concerns,
even though those concerns were of no moment
to the one, which were all in all to the other,

VOL. II.  L

and might readily rejoice in successes which
were incomprehensible.

This sort of intelligent sympathy was unknown
at Carnochan.

There it had been of late : " How tiresome !
Alice will go out riding just when I wanted her
to finish that book, that I might change it at
the library for the one I have been waiting for
so long;" or, 'where is Kate? Full of some
nonsense or other up-stairs, I suppose. Do make
her leave it, and come down."

Even the children had caught the tone. " How
stupid of Marjorie to care still for a doll ! "
would elicit the equally scornful retort because
Bertha had ceased to romp and play.

No one thought of urging Bertha to frisk for
company's sake with the little one ; no one suggested
that it would have been hard on Alice
to have to forego her favourite amusement on
a fine afternoon because Kate wanted a book
finished, or that Kate in her turn might have
been invited to disclose what that " nonsense "
was she was presumed to be engrossed with,
instead of being incited and wellnigh obliged
to lay it on one side.

These humours had been all that was gained

by Lady Olivia's attempt to make the household
hang together more. Since they had been interfered
with by her, they no longer respected
each other's rights; and matters were so far
from being mended, that they were one vast
rent at the moment when poor rebellious
and sore - hearted Kate, the worst of the
bunch, was cast forth, Jonah-like, to hush the
tempest.

But at the Muirland Farm, Lizzie, who
scarcely knew a sheep from a goat, farm-bred
though she was, would with ready tact and insinuating
suggestions draw from her father's
lips the record of his daily hopes, anxieties, and
cares ; how he thought of arranging one thing
and another ; which of his few fields he proposed
to clear with turnips, and which were already
prepared for oats ; what additions he intended
making to his stock,  the Muirland was, like
most of the West of Galloway farms, almost
entirely a grazing one,  and what animals he
thought it advisable to get rid of.

In return, the farmer would persistently make
inroads into those mysteries which baffled him
and pleased his lassie,  lay his huge head on
one side with profoundest attention while she

spoke,  and inquire deferentially even after that
Jupiter whom he could not "come'

Both would smile on granny when the ball
was in her hands next, and her homely difficulties
and successes were recounted. None
were cheered, wrapped in self, expectant
of sympathy.

It seemed to Kate quite natural now that she
should, with cheerful alacrity, enter into the
recital of her sister's enjoyments ; and since she
desired nothing less than to play the part of
chronicler on her own account, there was no
hindrance to the " And what happened next ? "
and " Did you really do that ? "  so musical to
the ear of a historian.

I was just sitting with Kate, and giving her
our accounts," Alice explained, when at length
she went to the boudoir. "She was so much
interested that I could not get away sooner."

*' How is she to-day 1 " inquired their stepmother.


Very well. She is getting up now."

'' Is she coming down-stairs ? "

'* No ; she is going to her own little room 
the triangle. Papa has had all her books and
things put back there," said Alice, demurely.

"Oh''

Neither then nor afterwards did Lady Olivia
offer any objection to the room being called
Kate's, and used by her. She had the sense
to know when she had been defeated.

Presently it was  "Mr PoUaxfen comes on
Saturday, Alice." Alice looked for more.

Your sister being still so delicate, she will,
of course, be unable to accompany you everywhere
: she must not be over - fatigued, nor
run the risk of taking cold. At the same
time " she stopped, at a loss how to proceed.
{" At the same time," she wanted to say,
"remember that what was all very well at
Brighton, when you and I were alone, and
under no supervision, will hardly do beneath
the eyes and among the ears at home. Mr 
may even turn restive himself, if usurped
too barefacedly. It will be decorous, wise, in you
to hold back a little at this crisis,  just so far,
at least, as to draw him on  just so much as
to say, ' Whatever I may suspect, I do not know
on whose account you have come here ; and until
I do, you are not to perceive whether your coming
is of any avail or not.' ")

Something of this, not so plainly put, but

sufficiently intelligible, did at length filter out,
and was topped with, " And so, my dear, make
Kate of all the use you can. Get her to sit
with you in the room sometimes; get her
to sit down and chat. If she were to fly away,
as she used to do, at the approach of a stranger,
Mr PoUaxfen would think it so extremely
odd."

Alice understood, engaged for Kate  mindful
of the newly-found compliance which was now
to prove so valuable  and passed on the hint.
For her sake, would Kate be friendly to the
guest 1

Saturday came, and with it Mr PoUaxfen.

No other fair one had consoled him for his
loss in Alice. Nothing had occurred to subdue
in his bosom the gusto with which he
still gloated over his anticipated crushing of
Defour.

It was provoking, cursed provoking, that his
vengeance should suffer such delay  that he
could not have the eclat of a speedy and gorgeous
bridal on the very scene of his primal
obscurity. That was a nuisance ; and he had
not felt sufficiently sure of his footing to write,
either. He was not a man (no, no ; knew a

trick worth two of that),  he was Dot a man
to commit himself, until he tuas sure; but he
was prepared to wait, since there was nothing
else for it.

The moment he was summoned, he came ; and
he was met on the threshold by Lady Olivia and
Miss Newbattle with all the empressement due
to their friend, who had come on their invitation.
That was enough ; his assurance returned
full tilt, and never again left him.

Kate was not in the drawing-room until just
before dinner ; and it was with considerably
raised expectations, derived from divers long
and confidential interviews wherein this hero
had figured, that she at length turned the
handle of the door.

At first no stranger was visible.

There was her father, there was Alice, and

there was Lady Olivia oh! Behind Lady

Olivia's ample draperies was a short, broad,
little, bow-legged man.

Her entrance made all the party turn their
heads; and she became aware that "another
daughter" was being named, and that her
hand was being eagerly taken by a hand
not so very much larger itself; and it needed

not a whole minute's reflection to make her
aware that she must prepare quickly for being
asked what she thought of Mr Pollaxfen ? If
taken at unawares, she would assuredly betray
her shock.

This, come what might, was the very last
thing which must happen.

What ! Hurt poor Alice in such a matter ?
Wound her in the tenderest point 1 Oh, not
now  now, when she too well knew what those
words meant, should thoughtlessness betray her
into cruelty. Something, somewhere, somehow,
must be found to his advantage. She must find
out that he was pleasant amiable, clever, if she
could not say fine-looking nor distinguished. She
must discover good-humour, or at least commonsense,
if every other quest proved a failure.

But what a mean little figure it was ! What
attitudes, what legs I Do what she would, she
could not keep herself from criticising the newcomer
from top to toe ; and in every survey was
found fresh cause for marvel. Was this the man
who had been the central point of her sister's
elysium ? Had the best of Alice's joys and hopes
indeed circled around that little, ordinary, fidgeting
puppet? Could that unmelodious voice,

issuing through its teeth, in endless " Don't you
knows ? " and " That sort of things' ever have
been softened to a tender tone, and been hearkened
to with charmed ear ? Impossible, incredible
!

He was nearly buried in his chair, twirling
round his heavy watch-chain as he sat. Was
that the style in which he usually made love ?

Certainly he was talking to her sister, and
certainly at the moment he could do no more
than barely talk ; but there are ways of doing
everything. For instance, where were his eyes
all the time ? As often as not, she caught them
leering round to where she herself was stationed.
If not on her, they were on the wall, the chime
the ceiling, anywhere and everywhere,
but always wearing the same air of restless
curiosity and vulgar interest.

And Alice had seen Eupert,  knew his look,
his smile, his voice.

Not as Kate did, not as it had been hers to
behold and listen :  to watch beside him among
mountain-torrents, to blush beneath his gaze
under the murky sky, to sob upon his bosom
in the ocean cave,  those memories were all her
own ; but still . Well, she would not be

too hard on Mr Pollaxfen. It was certainly
not his fault that he was neither tall nor handsome
; that instead of being gifted with Evelyn's
towering shoulders, square chin, and fine expressive
eyes, he should slope downwards from the
neck, have little, wandering, light-coloured orbs
of vision, and should tuck his incipient beard
into his cravat as though he were ashamed of it.

She was ashamed of herself for noting such
unfortunate defects ; for to be sure, who would
affirm that the soul of an intellectual giant has
not many a time been found in a pigmy frame,
and he might have much knowledge, even although
his watchword were " Don't you know ? "

It was certain that he could not smile, but
he might be able to laugh.

When Rupert smiled and laughed at once, it
was a look of mischief, diablerie, what not ?
Ah, such a look ! A look that poor Kate had
learned to watch for and tingle beneath.

Now it haunted her.

Never since their parting had he seemed more
present to her than on this particular night : try
as she might, she could not drive him from her
thoughts. Unheeding the vacant nothings which
passed, unmindful of Alice's request that she

would bear her part in all, more and more silent
she grew,  until, wrapped in contemplations,
which caused her to start and change colour if
addressed, the babble and chatter on every side
fell, at length, like empty noises far in the distance,
upon her inattentive ear.

'' Kate, my love, Mr Pollaxfen has spoken to
you three times ! "

Kate was very sorry and very red.

"She is such an absent creature," explained
Lady Olivia, pleasantly, " that she often misses
what is going on. It is no ill compliment to
you, Mr Pollaxfen."

I only came to inquire whether I might remove
this table," said Pollaxfen. " Miss New-battle
would like to put her work-basket upon
it. If it is not wanted "

Oh no."

** You do not work yourself? "

Not very much. A little."

You are fond of music, I daresay ? "

Ye es. But I don t often hear it."

Well ; but you will give us some, won't
you?"

"I? Oh no. Alice," said Kate, hastily
Alice sings, but I don't."

"Kate is our bookworm, Mr Pollaxfen/'
chimed in Lady Olivia, picking him up as it
were, and putting him on the right rails.
'skate is our student. She is longing at this
moment, I am sure,"  laughing  " to run away
from us all and shut herself up in the library."

Indeed ? " replied the gentleman, rather at a
loss. (A bookworm, was she, this sister-in-law
to be? By Jove, he had never seen such red
and white anywhere ! He would not have
minded having her at the Brighton assemblies,
to take turns with her sister for him. But a
'' bookworm,"  eh ? He did not see that, quite.)

Well, a library's always a comfortable room
in a house," proceeded he, after the momentary
pause required for the above reflections. " You
can get it well warmed, don't you know \ And
it shuts in snugly at night, with green curtains
and shaded lamps, and that sort of thing. We
have rather a good library at one of my places
in Lincolnshire; but at the other one,  at Gray-field
Hall,  it is much too large. A library
should not be too large, you know, should it % "
to Lady Olivia, whom he knew by experience
would always listen to him on the subject of
his "places."

Formerly, it will be remembered, she had encouraged
Mr Newbattle on the same tack ; and
it is probable that the defunct Evelyn had been
likewise drawn out, and smiled upon. It was
one of the provoking idiosyncrasies of her son,
that, having as good a " place " as anybody, he
never mentioned Evelyn Towers.

I am so glad you are fond of your library,
Mr Pollaxfen. My son is different."

Oh, well, I don't know about being fond of
it. Lady Olivia. I tell them to keep it up."

That is just what Eupert will not do. No
one is allowed to enter his. Indeed, all the best
rooms are shut up from one year to another."

'' Are they ? Oh ! " said Pollaxfen, with his
old awe strong upon him. '' It's the best way,
no doubt. Captain Evelyn can't be expected
to stick close to a humdrum old country house ;
he is safe to be asked about a lot." Already
he felt a pride in saying it ; and the sentiment
being to her mind. Lady Olivia would not cavil
at the expression.

"But still," she said, plaintively, "when a
young man has large estates, he ought not to
absent himself from them altogether. Although
Rupert is my own son, I must condemn him.

Now, he has actually rejoined in London without
being once at the Towers ! ''

(rejoined. I did not know that' said Kate
to herself. "I am so glad I stayed up and
heard this. But what shall I do, or say, if they
ever speak to me about him ? How shall I ever
meet him as a stranger,  I who know him so
well  so well. But rejoined? That means
I am safe yet a while ; and it means  it
means ")

Really, Kate, you foolish girl, I must speak
to you again. You are worse than ever to-night,
my love."

There was real annoyance in Lady Olivia's
tone. (" Mr PoUaxfen will take her for a fool,"
she thought, " sitting like that, with her hands
on her lap, staring into the fire. She had better
go to bed, and then I can make up some sort of
excuse for her")

The suggestion was followed only too gladly.

And I hope you won't be so tired tomorrow,"
said Pollaxfen, as he lit her candle
and wished her good night, staring hard all the
time. (And again he thought within himself,
Dash it, she would have made a figure in the
Rooms,  that she would ! ")

Every day now there was something or other
going on; some picnic or riding-party was
formed for the afternoons, and people came to
dinner in the evenings. Every day Lady Olivia
thought Pollaxfen would speak out, and Alice
felt almost shy if left by chance alone with him.

Why did he not ?

He was satisfied with everything. The connection
was as desirable from every point of
view as he had considered it to be at first.
Lady Olivia was as complete a woman of fashion,
Captain Evelyn as valuable an ally, Carnochan
all that he had been led to expect it.

But the wretch had something which he called
his heart, and which was now giving him warning
of its presence every hour; for it said
loudly, " Here's an ugly mess ! I came hereto
marry Alice, and I have fallen in love with
Kate."

Chapter XX.

THE MAN WOULD NOT LET HER ALONE,

' Fear to do base, unworthy things is valour ;
If they be done to us, to suffer them
Is valour too."

Ben Jonson.

Kate was the only one of the family to find
out what had happened.

It was not that she was ineffably penetrating,
nor that they were the reverse,  it was simply
because Pollaxfen, bent on running no risks,
and resolved not to lose an actual for the sake
of a possible good, continued to play in public
the part of a suitor to the Miss Newbattle on
whose account it was understood he had come,
while in secret losing no opportunity which
chance and Alice's sisterly injunctions threw in
his way, of insinuating himself into the good
graces of the one who had in all innocence

stolen this affections. One or other of them he
certainly would have.

When Kate came in, looking glorious, after a
stroll round the lake or through the daffodil
fields, he could scarcely keep his hands off her.
He longed to throw himself on his knees, and
lay down everything he possessed at her feet.
He crept into corners of the room, in order that
he might feed his amorous eyes by stealth ; and
he hunted Alice to the piano, for no reason but
that he might get her out of the way.

She had never inspired him with a like
passion.

He had liked her as well as he could have
liked any pretty, fashionable damsel who had
been, as he would have said, " cracked up " by
Lady Olivia, and whom he had purchased and
made over to himself, as it were, by his agreement
to remain at Brighton on her account.

She had answered every requirement of the
place. She had been able to take rank with
any of the girls going, and had not only placed
him, as her admirer, on a par with the dragoons,
but had given him the pull over them. Their
flirtations had been mere froth and soap-bubble,
with no solidity, no basis underneath. He had

VOL. II. M

laughed to think how little the dashing mustachioed
gentleman knew what was going on.

And then he had not forgotten that he was
going in for the eldest of the four daughters.
He did not put much faith in Lady Olivia's
hints about heiress-ship,  in cases of this sort,
queer wills were often made, he considered, 
but still, there was the place and the property,
and Alice herself had informed him quite guilelessly
that Carnochan had nothing to do with
Lady Olivia, nor with anybody but herself and
her three sisters.

"But when your father dies, I suppose you
would have to turn out, wouldn't you ? " he had
delicately observed in reply.

"When papa dies,"  Alice looked duly solemn,
 "when papa dies, the estate comes to us.
I don't know how, but I know it does."

It was enough. Carnochan was neither here
nor there : he was not going in for money  he
would take it if he got it  a Scotch place with
old pictures and heirlooms was always respectable,
 but if it should turn out that the girls had
only a life interest in the estate, or something of
that sort, it would not bother him.

Since his Miss Newbattle was the eldest, if

there were to be any difference made between
the sisters, it would be to her advantage ; and
with this conclusion he was well content.

Lady Olivia had been equally so. She was
certainly doing well for Alice, as she had done
well for herself,  not considering two wealthy
commoners unsuitable mates for an Earl's nearly
portionless daughter. Alice would have a better
dowry than her step-mother had ever had ; but
then Alice, though passably good-looking and
sprightly, was not in any way remarkable. In
securing to her the large rent-roll of Pollaxfen, 
and she had taken good care to have no mistake
made on that point,  the astute woman of
the world had been convinced of the soundness
of her policy. No one knew better than she
did, that it would have been difficult to do as
well amidst the uproar of London.

Both having been thus moderate and clear-headed,
they had got along amicably.

Lady Olivia was not enamoured of her friend,
but he might pass muster viewed from special
stand-points ; while Alice, regarding him from
these, as directed,  as the medium of untold
delights,  had been easily led on. *' Certainly, I
hardly expected that she would give me so little

trouble," reflected her step-mother, who indeed
had had a vision of girls who would dance with
second sons, and appeal to their parents' feelings
when informed of a desirable but unpalatable
offer.

Alice, on the contrary, had accepted her 
without a word.

And since such becoming docility could not
have been counted upon, all the more self-congratulation
did the delighted projector of the
scheme bestow upon herself.

Once or twice, even she had marvelled at its
success.

To Kate, who was quick-witted enough when
roused to notice, there was something exquisitely
ludicrous in the way in which Lady Olivia, 
who, whatever might be her shortcomings, was
a gentlewoman bred and born, and who was thus
alive to every trifling vulgarity of her guest,
every surreptitious bite of his nails and movement
of his toothpick, as well as to the unceasing
twirl of his watch-chain,  strove to suppress
her perception of them.

As he advanced in familiarity, as he became
domesticated at Carnochan, the man's real nature
began to appear.

At Brighton he had been seen at his best.
With his smart clothes and his curricle, he had
put on himself a gloss ;  he had exerted all his
energies to cope with the place, its habits and
customs : and though even there he had been
felt to be below the mark in breeding as well
as ability, it was not until the closer contact of
quiet country-house life stripped from his back
the last shreds of the lion's skin in which he had
sought to drape himself, that he stood to the
world confessed, a vicious and ill-nurtured ass.

Perhaps, had it not been for the perturbation
of the young man's mind, and the fluctuations
of his resolution at this time, he might have
managed to keep up appearances a little longer ;
but full of his own thoughts, his wily devices,
and his clandestine passion, the art of pleasing
generally was too severe a strain to be added to
the other complications.

He could not stand that. No, by Jove, he
could not ! The old woman must go to the wall,
when he was bothering his brains out between
the two young ones.

He would sit on Lady Olivia's sofa, chewing
his nails in silent meditation, without bestowing
a thought on her, as he reflected on his last rebuff

from the beauty. He would take up a book
and laugh over its absurdities, rather than attend
to her conversation. When he was weary,
he would yawn in her face.

She was only too thankful if no one else saw.

Furtively she would steal a glance at Alice,
and draw a sigh of relief if Alice's head were
turned the other way. Alone with her step-daughters,
she avoided the subject, talking fast
and gaily on anything and everything but Mr
PoUaxfen; and neither his mind nor his manners
ever received a comment from her lips.

But she could not so entirely school her face :
she could not invariably be on her guard, as she
would fain have been, in that quarter.

She did what she could. She smiled, chatted,
and laid herself out to make things bright and
pleasant with persevering assiduity ; but it was
more than mortal woman could do, she thought,
to keep her face clear of every evidence of the
vexation which was continually being excited
anew.

And thus it came to pass that daily intercourse
with the unconscious visitor became an
effort needing all the strength of her strong will
to maintain smoothly, and that in her voice and

eye there was a habitual mingling of complacency
and disgust  a struggle when he was by
to turn upwards the corners of a mouth which
were for ever turning down, that to one of those
present, at least, needed no interpretation.

She was dying for the marriage, not more for
the sake of being able to tell all her thousand
and one friends and allies of the eligible union
her sweetest daughter was about to make, than
for the release it would bring from a posture of
affairs which she was beginning to find intolerable.


Not more intolerable was it to her than to
Kate.

Kate, as we have said before, had become
alive to what Pollaxfen was about ; and though
all, more or less, may be understood to have
secretly fretted at the tedium of his lackadaisical
and dilatory courtship, so unlike the rapid
advances he had made at Brighton, the object
of his surreptitious tenderness was the worst off
among them all.

This had been at first merely an annoyance :
she had supposed he, in his way, meant to be
friendly to Alice's relations, and that he did not
comprehend at what point the friendliness might

very well stop; that he imagined lie might best,
by compliments and obligingness to the circle,
pay homage to the lady of his choice,  and
therefore she had endeavoured to put up with
him.

She had even put up so well, that his courage
and confidence had risen high ; and when it became
apparent that the gallantries with which
she was besieged were not extended to other
members of the family, and that they were also
not meant to rise to the surface,  were not
for Alice's eye,  what was she to think ?

He could not catch her alone but what he
would say something he had no right to say.
She could not meet him on the stairs, nor in the
gallery, but he would have a pretext ready for
detaining her. They could not bid each other
an ordinary "Good night" but her hand must
be squeezed.

"Mr PoUaxfen, are you not coming to
church ? " inquired Alice, it being Sunday
morning. " We are late as it is."

He had a headache : he would stay at home,
he thought.

As soon as the party had set off, he was upstairs
hot-foot to Kate's room, whither he had

seen her retreat, protested that his headache
had arisen purely out of sympathy with the one
he had heard her avow, begged for a book, and
remained for an hour. He was in great spirits,
the ailment being manifestly a sham, got up
expressly for the purpose of making the most
of so excellent an opportunity.

Down he sat by the open window.

How delightful it was to listen to the church-bell
ringing in the distance when  one was not
going. Ha, ha, ha ! Was he very wicked to
say so ? He hoped she would forgive him. He
Alas afraid he had told a bit of a fib, but the
temptation to remain behind, since he had discovered
that she was doing the same, had been
too great for his principles. Church-going in
Scotland, when no one was there whom one
cared to look at, was uncommonly slow, she
must allow'' (A languishing expression was
lost at this epoch, since the lady kept her eyes
fast on the volume in her hand.)

"Pray dont read. It's the very worst
thing you can do, if your head is really bad,"
protested the assailant, with an accent on the
"really" that was insulting, although he did
not mean it so. " I don t want you to bother

about me, if you will only allow me to stay herewith
you. To breathe the same air as you do,"
with increasing boldness, "is all that I or any
man could desire."

It was more than Kate could stand.

Mr PoUaxfen, I am very sorry, but I must
be alone."

'* I would not even speak "

Your being in the room is too much. I am
obliged to be rude ; but, as I cannot entertain
you, and as it cannot possibly matter to you
what room you are in "

Indeed it does, though."

Then I will leave you this," said the young
lady, rising; "you will find books and other
things."

"Oh, I say, don t go."

She was gone as he spoke, and ere he could
get out more.

Hum ! " reflected Pollaxfen. '' Ha ! Perhaps,
stroking his chin, thoughtfully, " perhaps
I had better have gone to church, after all."

By next day, however, he was at it again.

Kate had gone out by the garden-door about
three o'clock. He knew that she was not allowed
to remain out above an hour, and he marked the

direction she took. Then he came in and sat
down to the writing-table.

Do you not ride this afternoon ? " inquired
Lady Olivia, coming in equipped for a walk to
the village.

Side '? Well, a ride, he allowed, would have
done him all the good in the world, and there

was nothing he would have liked better ; but

and he pointed to his unfinished letters.

No ; he must give up pleasure for that afternoon,
and stick to duty. The post must not be
allowed to go out without his letters, and he
would not have them done under an hour and
a half. There were such a lot,  and he eyed
them disconsolately. He jumped up in the
most obliging fashion the next minute, since
Alice appeared in her riding-habit, and no one
but himself must put her on her horse. It
was not until she was mounted that she observed
a groom was in attendance on the one
which had been placed at Mr Pollaxfen's disposal.
PoUaxen had been round to the stables,
and made his arrangements previously,  since
he had made up his mind to have another venture,
even before he knew what was to happen.

The groom understood not to appear too soon;

and while nothing could exceed the regrets of
Miss Alice's squire in being thus forced to provide
a substitute, he had not above a minute's
space into which to compress them.

How he laughed to himself as he made short
work of the letters afterwards !

He did not omit to have them sent  she was
too wary to incur any foolhardy risks ; but a few
lines in as many notes, and a couple of orders
which were done in a minute, made up a creditable
pile when he rang for the butler to take
them away. Thus, if the man were asked afterwards
whether Mr Pollaxfen s letters were intime,
no answer to rouse suspicion would be
returned.

Then the Writer stepped out, all in a flutter at
his own prowess, and its uninterrupted success ;
and with a sensation of mingled delight and
terror, which was quite a new experience, started
in pursuit of the cruel fair.

He had not far to go. He saw her before
he had proceeded a couple of hundred yards,
returning from her walk, sooner than he had
anticipated, probably because the wind was cold.
With an uneasy conviction that she would yet
pass him and make for the house, if he gave

her too long time to think about it, he slipped
behind a bush, intending to step out quickly as
she came near. Prudence had her reward.

Within a few paces of his retreat the object
of his chase turned off, and entered a side-path
leading to the old-fashioned kitchen - garden,
which, being sheltered by high walls all round,
was doubtless sought with a view to remaining
out a little longer without fear of being chilled.

Swift as thought he followed : he had her ina
trap now.

Taught by his lesson of the day before, he
did not on this occasion exceed at first the
limits of bare civility. Admiration of the spring
flower-beds, interrogations, and comments, procured
him at least a decent show of tolerance :
would he keep to this, his company, she reluctantly
felt, might be endured for Alice's sake ;
and although inwardly disconcerted, she hardly
knew how to deny his repeated requests for
one turn more' '' Don't let me tire you, but
I have not seen this path yet," even met with
an assenting bend of her steps towards it.

When Alice came home, which she did erelong,
and found her bird flown, it gave her no
surprise to find him being shown the new greenhouse,

though it did for a moment strike her
as peculiar that he should look so exceedingly
sheepish and guilty over so simple a matter.

As it happened, he was detected at the precise
moment of venturing upon one little tendresse,
his first. And to be thus caught, and
to have his answer interrupted by the legitimate
recipient of his petits soins, whom at the
moment he imagined far enough away, was, it
must be allowed, confusing and vexatious.

Perhaps, however, he did not know when he
was well ofi"; perhaps he was lucky in the deprivation
: at any rate, any surmises that might
have arisen in the mind of Miss Newbattle were
set at rest by one glance at her sister's face.

Kate had been making one of her speeches,
Alice thought,  snubbing the poor man, who
had had no notion of the firebrand to which he
would set a light should he inadvertently choose
to air any theories at which so haughty and
self-opinionated a young madam could take
umbrage.

It was a pity. Kate had been so much
softer and gentler of late. She had been quite
mild with her step-mother; and sisterly, and
roguish, and merry with Alice. It was really

a pity that she did not like Mr Pollaxfen.
When pressed, she had not been able to say
more than, " You know, Alice, yon and I never
did like the same people  except Mrs Popham."

"Very true," Alice had assented; *' but
everybody cannot be Mrs Pophams. And I
think that for my sake, Kate, you might try at
least not to dislike  and that is something with
you  one who is so much to me."

But could passive neutrality be possible in
such a case ? The man would not let her alone.

At length even Alice perceived that her sister
was admired, and forbore to press for forbearance.
Whatever might be her conflicting sensations
on finding the two together, with troubled
and averted looks, in the greenhouse, displeasure
against Kate was not among them.
She was rather amused on the whole. " I warned
you," she said gaily afterwards, in answer to the
gentleman's clumsy explanation, and assertion
that he could not succeed in making friends
with her sister. " I warned you. She is a very
tinder-box when she is taken the wrong way."

But what am I to do ? " cried poor Kate,
in despair of aid, and agony of soul, when, a
few days after this, the sighing and ogling of

the treacherous Pollaxfen developed into downright
love-making  " what will be the end of
it?"

She had held her peace as long as she could,
trusting every day that something would occur
which should either ease her of his persecution,
or betray him to Alice ; but her silence had
only served to render her tormentor more audacious
and more sly. He felt that his double-dealing
was connived at, understood,  that she
was willing to be made up to secretly.

If not, why had he not had to run the gauntlet
of reproaches and frowns from the slighted
Alice ?

Sometimes he was almost ready to court
these ;  it would be too delicious to have both
the young ladies pulling caps for him. But it
would be unsafe : he respected Kate for her
reticence, and concluded that she was as clever
as himself. He told himself that he was up to
her game. This was it. They were to go on
as they were doing yet a little longer ; and then,
as soon as she had sufficiently drawn him on,
they would together turn round, and fling their
engagement in the faces of the rest of the family.
An idea more titillating to his vanity could not

have been conceived ; and the offspring of it was
that cool assumption of an intelligence between
them, that unblushing, taking-all-for-granted
tone, which set her blood on fire, and made herat
times scarcely able to contain herself.

That poor unsuspecting Alice should continue
to be duped by a man so faithless, so mean, so
vicious, and so vulgar, was not to be borne.
The day of revelation came.

Poor child, perhaps she might have managed
better. Perhaps if she had been older and
calmer, she might have kept her sister's arm
afterwards round her neck. Alice had been
quite playful and affectionate when summoned
by her '' grim-visaged Katherine " to hear her
tale ; had felt so sure of hearing nothing unpleasant
to herself, whatever little tiff there
might have been between her lover and Kate,
and she concluded some such had taken place,
that the opening words had hardly startled
her.

I have something to say about this friend
of yours, Alice," began the eager, choking young
voice. "He is not the man you take him to be,
dear. He is  he is "

He does not hit your fancy," replied Alice,

VOL. IT. N

easily ; 'but then we discussed that before. You
have something else to say, surely "? "

Indeed, indeed I have ! It is not that he
does not take my fancy ; he has taken yours,
and that is enough  wretch that he is "

"Kate I"

I  I must tell you. I have kept it to myself
till now " A break.

Well, tell me." Alice smiled.

But her sister was silent. How should she
make things understood ?

'* Now, you dear unreasonable thing," continued
the elder young lady, with her little air of
superior wisdom, "do you just listen to me. I
see plainly enough how it is, Kate ; and of
course I am vexed, and wish you could think
differently. But I do not expect that you
will. You find Mr Pollaxfen tiresome because
he does not take much notice of you, and stupid
because he cannot be interested in your
concerns "

Stop, you are wrong. He is interested 
too much interested  oh, far too much. It is
that, Alice, that which I wish to tell you of.
You do not know the interest he assumes, and
the things he says ; and he comes after me, and

follows me, and will not let me alone. He is
false to you  false to you."

Kate, Kate, what do you mean ? " Alice
gave a little liard laugh. " What whim is this '?
You are dreaming, you strange ridiculous girl,
dreaming. Come, rouse yourself," laying her
hand on the shoulder from which the encircling
arm had been withdrawn ; " shake your wits
together, and think what you are saying, ma

' I do think  I both think and know. Alice,
would I speak thus if I were not sure, only too
sure, that what I say is true ? My poor Alice,
I am not dreaming ; I wish I were. Alice, if
you knew all, you would detest and despise
this man as I do. I loathe him. His very
touch "

You are flattering ; but I do not see what
his touch has to do with yoxi. Do not be so
warm, Kate ; you may be sorry by-and-by, you
know."

*' If I could only get you to believe me ! "

Why should I believe you ? "

"Alice, answer me,  do you really care for
him 1 Can you care for him 1 "

That is a question," said Alice, reddening.

which you can hardly expect me to answer,
considering the very unhandsome terms in which
you have just spoken of  of our friend. At
any rate' stiffly, " I care enough for Mr PoUax-
fen to beg that in future you will keep your
opinion of him to yourself."

Do you mean that ? ''

I certainly do. I never' continued Alice,
drawing herself up still further,  'upon my
word, Kate, I never heard such extraordinary
language used before."

Extraordinary language ! But "

Well ? But what ? "

What language am I to use 1 How am I
to make you listen to me 1 "

There is no difficulty in that ; I am listening
to you now."

But you will not believe me ? "

No ; that I can't promise to do."

At least I must speak ; oh, I have been too
long silent already ! I have borne it day after
day,  and you don't know what it has been to
bear,  and yet I felt all the while that it must
come at last to this. He pursues me," she
broke out, passionately ; "he hunts me from
place to place ; I am nowhere safe from him.

It does not matter where I go, or what I do,
he is sure to find some way of forcing his company
upon me, directly he thinks he can do so
unperceived. He is blinding you by affecting
to pass me over without notice whenever you
are by; but directly,  the very instant that your
back is turned, he is by my side, saying things
that are odious to me and treacherous to you.
Alice, dear sister, it is the truth ; indeed, indeed
it is ! Alice, will you not believe me
now? It is for your sake, only for your

sake " She stopped : her voice had risen

almost to a cry, and one responsive look, one
tremor in the countenance that remained unmoved
before her, would have brought forth
a stream of tears and kisses, loving words and
tenderest tones,  all, in short, that was finest
and sweetest in a heart that had itself been
wrung.

But the fountain was frozen even as it welled
up within. With lips only a shade paler than
was their wont, and without other trace of emotion,
Miss Newbattle rejoined coldly, "You are
very foolish to excite yourself thus : you know
so little, and have seen so little of the world,
that you ought to be more guarded. People

who have been more in society would be a
great deal more cautious about taking up such
absurd misapprehensions."

Misapprehensions ! It is no misapprehension."


So you think ; but I am of a different
opinion, and I have at least as good a right
to judge as you. Most people, indeed, would
think that my opinion was the more valuable
of the two, considering that I have had some

little experience why, my dear Kate," she

broke off, scornfully, " if it were not so absurd
an idea from beginning to end, I could prove
to you in a dozen ways that you are under a
mistake. There was that affair between Mr
Pollaxfen and Captain Defour "

"Yes, I know; but   "

But I can assure you that was not the only
one. He was constantly making people jealous ;
for  although perhaps I should not say it  I
was very much admired, and all kinds of men
wanted to be introduced. And the girls were
just as anxious to know Mr Pollaxfen. It was
quite his own fault that he knew so few people ;
he often told me so. It was only when / went,
that he cared to go to the assemblies and other

things. He devoted himself to me wherever I

was at Brighton "

Has he devoted himself to you since

he came to Carnochan ? "

That is different. That he wishes to be on
friendly terms with all my people, is one of the

clearest proofs of his having a  a you really

ought not to press me like this. It is not
delicate. I do not like to say all I feel on
such a matter. It is to me as plain as possible
that poor Mr Pollaxfen has been guilty of the
unpardonable offence of being civil to you for
my sake,  and you, with your unsophisticated
ideas, have taken it amiss ; and now, because
I happen to keep my senses, and decline to
participate in this frenzy, you are indignant
with me ; "  for Kate had turned away.

I am not indignant," she answered, sorrowfully.
" How could I be 1 It is you who may
well be indignant with me, if ''

*what does it matter? In either case it is
nonsense, and the less said about it the better.
I am not angry with you, although  as you say
yourself  I might very well have been ; but you
must really drive such a notion out of your head
as quickly as you can."

''HI can, I will."

That is right,  that is the best way. It
never does to harbour fancies. As Lady Olivia
says "

'' But, dear Alice," taking her hand, '' you
have my promise ; will you give me yours ?
You will not forget my warning; you will watch
for yourself, and not allow him to hoodwink
you as he has been doing 1 I mean,"  hastily,
as her sister frowned,  " I mean, you will at
least find out whether he is hoodwinking you
or not ? And if you find that he is "

*' Pshaw, Kate ! I thought we had done with
this. Now, you are growing flushed again, and
yet you know that you have been warned to
avoid excitement of every kind. For your own
sake you ought not to work yourself up into a
state like this ; and it is too ridiculous into the
bargain  it is a mistake from beginning to
end."

Such was the tone she was firm in taking.

Whether or no to believe in so gross an imposture
on PoUaxfen's part, and in such a terrible
fall from her own high position, she could
not tell, but at least she would affect incredulity.
The strain was severe; and she drew a

long breath as she passed out of her sister's
presence, and sought the solitude of the park,
feeling as though she must be alone and unperceived
whilst chewing the cud of such bitter
meditations. But in the very path which had
been chosen for the purpose, whom should she
encounter but Pollaxfen himself?

All was changed within a few short minutes.

It appeared that he had actually been on his
way to seek her  that during the past half-hour,
throughout which he had been alternately denounced
and defended overhead, he had been
closeted with the father of the combatants in
the room beneath, and he had been taking the
surest means of vindicating his character in the
eyes of at least one of the two. He had been
demanding from Mr Newbattle the hand of his
eldest daughter ; and poor Mr Newbattle, who
had been told that he was to expect this miserable
hour from the first day of his guest's
arrival, would have been only too thankful to
have given him the hands of all four, and have
done with the matter, would he but have
requested them through the medium of Lady
Olivia.

He had never known a minute's peace,  or

SO he himself thought,  since he had had this
interview hanging over his head. He had tried
every means to evade it, wondered why he
needed to be consulted at all, assured his lady
that she had full powers from him to accept
anybody she liked for any one of the girls, and
declared that, between Maxwell and the estate,
he had no time to attend to domestic matters.

All such excuses were blandly ignored by his
wife, and they finally resolved themselves into
hasty retreats out of sight whenever Pollaxfen
appeared during the daytime, and unsuccessful
attempts at sleep when unavoidably left alone
with him after dinner in the evenings.

He had, however, been caught at last, and
the thing was done. He went straight to the
boudoir to report the terrible business well
over, and the accepted suitor made for the
park. The rebuff he had received from Kate
that afternoon had been such an one as even
he could not get over; and with the swiftness
of cunning, he had anticipated the disclosure
which he had felt convinced must follow. He
had seen it in her face, and had in his own
mind vowed savagely that he would " chuck
it down her throat again'' By Jove, he would !

He would cause the haughty miss to believe
that he had only been amusing himself at her
expense, and that she had overstepped the mark
in supposing him stricken by her charms.

He would teach her to give herself airs to
him, he would. After bothering him off and
on for a good three weeks, to dare to turn
round upon him like that at the last !

He went straight into the library and sought
Alice's father, and Alice met him as narrated,
coming subsequently to look for her.

Everything proper was said, and said so
effectively, that Kate's testimony went to the
winds. It positively must have been the delusion
her sister had asserted it to be. She had
the evidence of her own senses, and she declined
to receive any other. The only effect of the
outbreak was to make her wonder within herself
whether Kate could have been quite  quite herself
when she made it. She had always been
fanciful. The excitement of the past three
wrecks,  and perhaps there had been a little
anxiety on her (Alice's) account besides,  might
have fixed her mind rather too intently on one
point. At any rate, Alice, who inherited her
father's love of peace and easy humour, resolved

to forget what it was awkward to remember,
and to keep in the background of her
own memory what she could benefit nobody
by communicating to others. She did not, as
will be seen, adhere subsequently to so wise
a resolution, but at the first the only mild
triumph she permitted herself was conveyed
in asides, such as this : " You see, my dear
Kate, you were a ninny after all, though you
meant it for the best. You should really be a
little less vehement and less positive in your
assertions. Be more circumspect when you go
into the world, Kate, or you will get into
scrapes, I can tell you. Now, just fancy if I
had taken up what you said, and had gone ofi*
to Harold,"  Harold was Mr Pollaxfen's Christian
name,  ' and had confronted him with
your report ! He would have thought me mad !
He cannot bear flighty and quarrelsome people.
And do you know what he told me to-day 1
that he must own he had seen from the first
that you were a young lady to beware of.
Those were his very words. He was quite
afraid of you, he declares ; for you seemed to
him to have such a cross, forbidding, old-maids
look. You must have put it on when

you took that fancy into your head, you know ;
and by the way, that reminds me that I meant
to tell you how entirely your conjectures must
have been groundless from the very first, for he
says himself that if there is one thing in the
whole world he detests more than another, it
is a blue-stocking ! "

CHAPTEK XXL

WOULD EVELYN COME J

That name for ever' dread, yet ever dear,
E'en in his absence I pronounce with fear."

Pope.

Now that Pollaxfen had actually spoken, he
was restored to Lady Olivia's favour : his dirty
boots were permitted to rest upon her velvet
footstool, without being the subject of reproachful
glances, ill-concealed ; and he might yawn
when he pleased.

He had done his part and fulfilled his contract
: accordingly, he had established a claim
to forbearance, which, however slovenly, ill-bred,
and upsetting he might be, was not to be set
aside.

'' Alice, my love," she could now say, " we
must begin at once. We cannot be too methodical
; these matters should all be done systematically.

Your own relations and your father's
old friends, lie and Kate must take in hand  it
is not de rigueur for you to have anything to do
with the announcements : as to people generally,
I will see that no one is neglected. Then we
must get to the trousseau as quickly as possible."

This was enough to condone the gravest
errors. The man who had put it in her power
to say this, might have been pardoned for walking
knee-deep in mud, and laying his feet on
her ladyship's own lap afterwards, had he so
chosen.

Everybody felt the same.

The dessert after dinner, which had perceptibly
waned after the first ten days of Mr
PoUaxfen's stay  and which, in the sombre stagnation
of the past week, had been reduced to
two bald dishes of oranges and biscuits, without
even the addition of any pretty little glasses of
bon-bons to fill up the interstices  now blazed
up afresh. The footmen, who, on divers pretexts,
had shirked their best liveries during the
cold March winds, resumed them with scrupulous
punctuality.

Mademoiselle reappeared in the evenings.

She had found these so insupportably dull of

late, that the company below, sitting in different
quarters of the great stiff drawing-room, had
been abandoned for Rousseau and her peignoir
in the warmth and solitude of the deserted
schoolroom up-stairs. But now that affairs had
taken a new turn, since arrangements were being
made, letters discussed, and since Lady Olivia
was once again in good humour, it became
worth her while to make her toilet, and descend.

Every one seemed rejuvenated except Kate.
Poor Kate !

If Pollaxfen had been insufferable before, he
was almost more so now. True, he could not,
as hitherto, cause his defenceless victim to fret
and fume, and wish herself back at the old
farmhouse a hundred times a - day : he could
not make her dread when the hour came for her
ramble or her ride, lest he should find some
excuse for being her companion, and some opportunity
for making himself repulsive. Nor
could he, by thus filling her mind with horrible
thoughts and fears, render it unable to find 
even in her quiet hours, her books, and musings
 a solace. He could in this way no longer
make her life miserable, but he retained the
power of doing so in another.

Out of his defunct passion lead sprung a new
and opposing one. Since he had ceased to love,
he hated ; and no annoyance, which he fancied
might be felt as such by the girl who had
spurned him, was too trifling or too despicable
for malignity such as his to descend to. She
could not make a suggestion which he would
not immediately oppose, and she rarely opened
her lips that he did not find in what she said
something at which he could sneer or cavil.
This was, perhaps, a trifle ; but surely it was
a more sad and serious matter that each day
which saw revealed new traits of meanness,
arrogance, and ill-nature, showed them in the
man who was to be Alice's husband.

Alice's husband ; and how about Alice herself?


All the newly-begotten ties which had been
formed between the sisters were now irrevocably
snapped in sunder. All the little kindnesses,
the sisterly crossings, the genial trifling, which
had of late sprung up between them,  all of
this was at an end. It was as though a rude
hand had parted the two, and held them back
from reuniting with inexorable grasp,  as though
there was for ever in the space dividing each

VOL. II.

from each, the hideous, leering, watchful visage
of Pollaxfen.

His ascendancy over his betrothed increased
hourly. Presently it was plain that the vain
simple girl had not been above dropping a hint
of what had transpired between her and Kate,
and that whether it had been a spontaneous confidence,
or  as was more probable  one wormed
out of her by artful leading questions, he had succeeded
in reassuring her entirely; he had vowed
and lied, until he had smoothed away the last
shadow of uneasiness. And to be sure, the past
spasm of doubt and jealousy had done more towards
making him worth securing, than had all
his previous attentions. Had he searched the
wide world through for something to raise him
in Miss Newbattle's opinion, something to make
him appear to advantage in her eyes, he could
have found nothing of more effectual aid than
Kate's communication. At one stride he had
become worth his weight in gold.

He was now nursing his position carefully.

Having had the satisfaction of receiving her
virgin heart, he would, he fondly hoped, in future
have the power of wounding, through it, that of
the haughty lady he aspired to humble.

Nor did lie altogether think amiss.

That he should lie in wait for opportunities,
out of which to coin revengeful speeches, was
pitiful, but it could be endured ; but that Alice
should make haste to recapitulate them, was
both sad and sickening. Alice thought it an
excellent joke to do so. She and Pollaxfen
found it quite amusing to go over in private
the " last act of the tragedy," as they called it.
He was playfully taxed with having too successfully
attempted to mislead, with having been
unwarrantably hard-hearted in carrying out his
resolve to throw everybody else off the scent,
at the expense of a poor deluded girl ; and in
return he affected regrets, and scouted blue-stockings.


Upon my soul, you know, I wouldn't have
done it," he would protest, '' if I had had the
slightest idea that what was fun to me was
death to her, and that sort of thing. Upon my
life, I wouldn't. But you see it wasn't until
you told me "

Oh, I did not say ' death,' "  Alice would
complacently correct the expression. "I only
said that you were a very naughty man, and that
you did not know the harm you were doing."

In truth, she had hardly realised at first what
she said. Bewildered by so many rapid transitions
of feeling, by the sudden plunge from
blissful security which Kate's revelation had
seemed to threaten, and anew by its resumption
on a solid basis, consequent on her meeting
PoUaxfen in the park immediately afterwards,
she had let more escape than she was aware of.
He had easily understood the whole.

Well, but you see, it was really most uncommonly
awkward for me," he would resume,
*' and  and uncommonly hard on me too. She
let you fancy all sorts of gammon  I mean
nonsense  for no earthly reason than just to set
you against me ! Now I call that not square,
you know. You can't be astonished if I do
have a kind of grudge against Miss Kate after
that?"

So far from being astonished, his auditor
appeared to share the feeling.

Whenever a chance offered for Pollaxfen tolet
drop some word or phrase more than usually
galling, she would hang her head to smile, and
steal a glance afterwards to see how far the
taunt had struck home. She took no pains to
hide that it had pleased her. Ostentatiously she

would call the speaker to order in a whispered
aside, but the accent of her remonstrance would
be so little short of encouragement that it almost
bade him go on and prosper. Indeed, such an
understanding, so entirely their own, and so
peculiarly appreciable by both under the circumstances,
seemed to cement their union more than
anything else could have done ; and to spite the
meddlesome busybody who, half out of folly and
half out of knavery, had tried to come between
the two fond hearts, became a daily amusement.
In this light the affair was looked upon by
Alice at least ; and so open was she in her
display of the gratification it afforded her,
that scalding tears of generous anger and disgust
were not unfrequently drawn from the
eyes of the sister who beheld and understood
the whole.

It was an added bitterness, that she seemed
to have brought the venom on herself Why
had she been so impetuous ? Why so hasty ?

By the exercise of a little more patience, or
by simply holding her tongue, all this display of
petty spite might have been avoided. Alice
would be Alice still ; that she could be willing
to marry such a man as Pollaxfen showed her

incorrigible ; but at least the sisters might have
remained friends, and parted with goodwill on
either side.

Over-haste had undone her. She had meant
to trample a scoundrel beneath her feet, and,
behold ! she had placed the scoundrel on a
pedestal, from which he put out his foot at her.
Must integrity always suffer 1

The next minute she would blush for herself
that this should disturb her mind, when far, far
worse was befalling poor misguided Alice. What
was PoUaxfen as an antipathy, compared with
PoUaxfen as a friend and companion for life ?
Forebodings, which daily deepened, made her
heart chill at the very thought of Alice. Even
her own hopes and memories receded reverently
before this ever-present shadow.

Without troubling itself as to what Kate
thought or felt, however, Carnochan gave itself
up to rejoicing. No one else saw anything but
the most brilliant sunshine in prospect : Bertha,
whose tedious tasks were lightened, and who
was permitted for the nonce to cater scraps of
news for Mademoiselle wherever she could,  and
Marjorie, who made friends with PoUaxfen on
the strength of a packet of sweetmeats,  were

neither of them more exuberant in spirits than
were their elders.

Eupert will certainly come down this time,"
cried Lady Olivia, when invitations for the wedding
were being issued. " I have made quite a
point of it, Alice ; and though he may only be
able to get leave for a day or two, he is so good-natured
that I am sure he will agree."

'' Oh, I say, I hope he will," said PoUaxfen,
who was present. He showed no signs of going
away, although Lady Olivia thought he might
very well by this time depart in peace to make
his own arrangements : the wedding-day was
drawing on, did he mean to remain at Car-nolan
all the intervening time 1

However she would be complaisant even

if he did. No one could have everything. That
he set so high a value on her son was always
one point in his favour, and his aspiration was
smiled upon.

' Of course he would not come for every one,"
she said.  Captain Evelyn does not care to
rush in at every open door ; but I think, I hope
he may choose to make an exception in dear
Alice favour." This was what Alice liked,
what kept up the flow of her good-humour :

to find that everything connected with this
supreme event was in a way belonging to her,
made her look upon it with that steady satisfaction
which it was so desirable it should inspire.
Lady Olivia, who could not for her life have
married Pollaxfen herself, was just sufficiently
fearful of her step-daughter's turning restive
some day or other, to be careful in the minutest
points. Thus, instead of saying that her son
might come in order to please her, it was, she
was strictly bent on declaring, in dear Alice's
favour that she alone expected he might be
induced to break through his rule.

"Well, we must make it worth his while'
replied the bridegroom-elect. *' Get some pretty
girls together, and all that sort of thing. Alice,
what appearance will your bridesmaids make ?
Have you any nice, fair, blue-eyed beauties ? "

Black-browed Kate was sitting near the
noodle.

There is your sister," said Alice, properly.

And Marjorie," added Lady Olivia, laughing.
" Quite a fair, blue-eyed beauty, and your
great friend, Mr Pollaxfen. '

But Pollaxfen looked serious.

Lucy ain't much," he said ; " she's fair,

but she's big and fat. Who else have
you?"

Two of my second cousins, two other Miss
Newbattles."

"Father too many Newbattles, I should
say," with a rude laugh. " Newbattles are well
enough, but you can have too many as well as
too much of a good thing. Have some one
besides Newbattles."

Susie Popham."

Ah, there's a girl ! " cried Pollaxfen, enthusiastically.
" Shell do. A pretty, lively, jolly
little creature, who gives herself no stuck-up
airs and nonsense. She is the very one to suit
Evelyn."

Three things in the speech offended Lady
Olivia. Why should Miss Popham be praised
for not giving herself airs to the Newbattles ?
It seemed as though Pollaxfen placed himself
and the Newbattles on a lower level,  whereas
her husband's family was  was very nearly, if
not quite, equal to the Pophams, and she of
course was, in her own person, far superior.
Then she did not care to hear her magnificent
Rupert vouched for by a person of Pollaxfen's
kind, and she hated to hear him called 'evelyn."

Since my son comes  if he comes at all 
to please Alice," she remarked, coldly, " and not
to run after pretty bridesmaids, it will not be
of any great moment to him whom he meets.
He has plenty of society at all times."

"But of course he would like to have someone
amusing  not a dull, stupid dummy, with
nothing to say for herself; that was what I
meant," explained Pollaxfen, with an insolent
glance at the object of all this. " If Evelyn is
my best man, I am in a way responsible for his
being looked after, and enjoying himself, don't
you know ? "

Indeed ? Do you propose asking my son to
be your best man ? '' said Lady Olivia, with a
variety of feelings, for this was the first she
had heard of it. The easy and appropriating
Evelyn " was now explained ; he had so entirely
familiarised himself with the idea, that it
had found expression involuntarily, although he
had not intended making the announcement so
soon. He had meant to keep it to himself until
an answer had been received to Lady Olivia's
invitation. Thus, true to himself, he would run
no risks that could be avoided. But he was
now committed.

*well, I do," he said. 'That's to say, if
you think it will be all right  if he won't take
me up short, and call it a liberty, and all that
sort of thing. I don't want to do anything
that would give offence, of course."

Rupert is the last person in the world to
take offence where none is intended," replied
Rupert's mother, mollified, and yet dubious.
She pondered another minute, and then looked
up briskly. '' It could do no harm to try. And,
in order that you may have time to provide
another in case of refusal, suppose you write at
once  "

"I didn't think of writing, Lady Olivia.
What I had in my mind to do was to run upto
Town the end of this week, and see Evelyn
myself."

Oh yes ; a very good plan."

She saw no way of preventing it.

Yet she would have preferred her new friend's
not being inspected at close quarters before the
wedding-day, when little could be seen and less
heard of him, and when he would probably
behave much as other men did ; she had a conviction
that her son would not admire her
choice.

In her mind's eye already lie saw Pollaxfen
cringing, servile, insufferable,  and would have
given the world to have been able to say to
him beforehand, " When you are with a person
you think much of, don t rub your hands, and
answer as if you could not presume to have
an opinion differing from his, and don't giggle
in that deprecating obsequious way of yours
at every second word he says." As it was, she
had to let him go unschooled, and could but
conclude ruefully, "Unless Eupert catches his
name, he will take him for a tailor." She did
not, you see, know that Rupert's tailor was
a very fine gentleman indeed, compared with
Harold Pollaxfen.

It was, however, something to get quit of
Harold at Carnochan. He was not, as has been
shown, a good guest, and he was still less happy
as an ami du famille. He seemed to have the
power of being in every room at once,  of establishing
himself in the library, of infesting the
hall, and of sprawling at full length in Lady
Olivia's boudoir at one and the same time.

He never had anything to do, and it did not
appear as if he were even as properly unsociable,
and desirous of no company but that of his ladylove,

as would have been admissible under the
circumstances. Quite the contrary. He liked
family conclaves into which he could insert his
opinion with the rest  circles of sitters all occupied
with the same subject. Nothing connected
with the all-important wedding-day was uninteresting
to his ear  no considerations, however
trivial, were beneath his attention. To burrow
in the largest chair he could find, twirl his
watch-chain, and enter into details that would
have driven another man frantic, was his favourite
mode of passing the time. Get him out
of doors they could not ; and to Lady Olivia,
who had always been in the habit of managing
her own concerns without advice or interposition
from anybody, the continual presence of
an inquisitive, prying listener, who let nothing
escape him, and ferreted out the meaning of
every allusion, was more intolerable than she
could or would avow.

She still had her qualms of anxiety about
Alice, and that alone bore her up ; and now,
when the London project was mooted, she felt
that whatever were its evils, it would still be
better that Pollaxfen should be mistaken by her
son for a tailor, than that her step-daughter, on

her part, should find that she had mistaken him
for a gentleman.

'' You are certainly an excellent deviser," she
said, therefore. " Rupert will be glad to make
your acquaintance ; and undoubtedly you stand
a better chance of succeeding in your kind
desire if you undertake it in person, than if you
trust to a letter. My belief is, that he never
reads letters. If you see him face to face, he
will hardly decline, for no one ever knew him
say a disagreeable thing in his life."

"That's the sort of fellow for me," cried
PoUaxfen. ' I hate your proud, verified gents,
all strut, and nothing to go upon, like those
vapouring swells we met at Brighton. Much
they had to vapour about, I'll be bound ! It's
always those who have the least that puff
out the most. When a young lady takes to
fancying herself, you know, and thinks all the
chaps she comes across are dying for love of
her, the chances are, that she's the very one
they all funk, and wouldn't touch with a hot
poker."

(" He grows worse every day," thought Lady
Olivia.) " Kate, my love," said she, presently,
where are you off to ? You are not thinking

of going out of doors in this easterly

wind r

"Would you rather that I did nos?" said
Kate, meekly. She was often wonderfully meek
with her step-mother now, looking on her as
the link between Carnochan and the absent
Evelyn, and the vehemence of their past disputes
seemed incredible. She had no desire to
quarrel with Eupert's mother, apart from her
resolutions to keep the peace on other grounds,
and every day saw her now let things pass that
would formerly have provoked censure. It came
quite easy on the present occasion to inquire,
Would you rather that I did not ? "

Certainly I would. It is not fit for any
delicate person to step outside to-day. Were
you quite well and strong, quite your hardy
old self again"  she liked the marrying man
to think them a hardy set, although to Mrs
Popham they might " cause endless anxiety on
account of their health "  " I should say nothing
was worse than stopping in the house,"
proceeded she. " I recommend fresh air for
everybody who can take it. Muttering over a
fire,"  with a pointed glance at Pollaxfen, who
was as close beside the fender as he could get, 

"buttering over a fire, only makes people all
the colder afterwards. Now a good brisk walk,
but not for you, my dear ; for you that
would be a risk."

* Oh, but Miss Kate is above all risks," cried
Pollaxfen ; ' she is a venturesome young lady,
and delights in dangers. You must not expect
prudence and discretion from learned ladies,
Lady Olivia."

Something had made him peculiarly alive to
the beauty and spirit of the girl that day ; perhaps
it was the constant mention of Evelyn
name which kept throwing up new variations
of colour and expression into her changing
countenance. She could not trust herself to
take any part in the conversation ; but neither
could she help following it, though every new
turn it took made her hot and cold, burn and
shiver.

No wonder that Pollaxfen, goaded by the
sight, racked his brains for speeches that were
so curiously meaningless and venomous, that
they made one at least of his other auditors
stare.

I will stay at home, then," said Kate, now
almost gratified by the care evinced in a prohibition

which she would once have resented,
and the tone of her reply was such that it
elicited a hearty *' That's right, my dear," and
an approving look, which was almost too much.
After the spiteful innuendos and titters of Pollard
and his bride, the unconsciousness of Lady
Olivia and her little word of approval were
estimated at treble their value.

But all alike were forgotten presently in the
one absorbing thought, " Would Evelyn come V
Every fibre was quivering with apprehension,
dismay, and terror ; but was there not underlying
each, a keen throb of some other emotion,
which had no name, and yet was akin to

ain

She thought there was not  she knew there
was.

She wept, and taking a little packet from her
bosom, kissed it. She stood for an hour gazing in
silence from her window on the waning prospect,
with eyes that saw not, ears that heard not.

Pollaxfen had no power to touch her then.

The sight of her serene brow that evening, and
of the softened tender lip, which had been only
curled and undrawn for him, chafed her enemy
more than he could tell. She reminded him, he

VOL. II. P

thought with a shudder, of a picture he had
once seen, representing the martyred Joan of
Arc tied to the stake, and looking round with
a holy calm upon her executioners. Just such
another Maid of Orleans he could have fancied
he saw before him.

What though every feature was now in
repose, had he not seen those eyes flash and
flame, that nostril spread, and that brow contort?
He was not taken in by all that well-contrived
appearance of saintliness and superiority.
She was no supernatural being, this shamming
Kate. Dash it ! he would do anything,
give anything, for one good slap at her !

But how to get it, was the rub ; and the question
was one to make him grind his teeth with
unavailing vexation.

Suddenly a thought occurred to him.

** I say," he whispered to Alice, "you are not
thinking of giving Evelyn your sister to look
after, are you 1 " His mind was always running
on the one topic,  so was hers : there
was no need to explain to what he referred.

"On the 21st?" replied she, understanding
immediately. " Certainly we are. That is the
right thing to do."

Well, all I can say is, I should not do it,
right thing or not. Evelyn is a man of the
world, accustomed to smart, stylish girls, with
no end of fun and dash about them : he would
be quite nonplussed by having such a "

*' A what ? " said Alice, who was still a sister,
and had enough sisterly feeling left to speak
quickly. " A what ? "

Well, I don't want to say anything that
you would dislike ; but that Kate is a caution !
She is enough to cast a damper over anybody,
look at her now, mooning in the window
corner. I have tried her on every subject 
talked till I was tired,  she told you herself
of the efforts I had made,  and I never could
get her to take the slightest interest in anything.
She is as heavy to get on with as a
lump of lead. There now, that's the truth.
Evelyn won't thank you for giving him a problem
of Euclid to work out  ha, ha, ha ! "

He had been told of Kate's having been unknown
as yet to the recently-acquired brother ;
and the ghastly idea had arisen, that when once
seen,  and seen, as must be the case, under every
advantage,  his gay Guardsman, who was so
much to him, might absolutely  and there

was horror in the thought  commit the same
error into which he had himself ere while fallen,
and with happier results. He might love, and
be loved.

On this he spoke.

'' Of course, if he can be satisfied with a dull,
namby-pamby miss as a companion, he may
admire her as he would a statue," he went on.
She has a sort of good looks ; but no life 

no spirit "

" Kate no spirit T' said Alice, laughing.

He had contradicted himself, as he often did.
He was driven so wild 'twixt one passion and
another, and was so sore put to it to find th
means of gratifying any, that he often hit on
opposing statements, and came to grief between
them.

None, unless she is angry ; I grant you,
enough and to spare then. But she can hardly
explode at our wedding,  or at any rate, it must
be internal combustion, if any. You and I,"
with  significant smile, '* may suspect it is there,
but no one else will. I say that it is quite on
the cards that Evelyn may take to her "

-" Eupert ? Oh no."

** You think not?" eagerly. 'well, I daresay

you are right. But he is uncommonly
thick with you all, is he not ? "

He and I are great allies, if you mean that.
He rode with me nearly every day "

'' Oh, I say, I should have been jealous''

** There was never anything of that sort'' said
Alice, with dignity. " We were only easy and
friendly; neither of us ever had to be spoken
to. But still I was the one he liked best of
us all. Every one knew that."

But he had never seen Kate ? "

"And sending me that magnificent bracelet
was really too kind,  quite a proof of the interest
he took in my marriage. I do hope,
Harold, you will succeed in getting him to
be your best man."

But why should Kate be best bridesmaid '? "

Why should she not \ "

She is so absent ; she is sure to go wrong,
and put the others out."

Nonsense ! "

'* Miss Popham would do far better."

*' I can't put Miss Popham before my own
sister."

She was willing to back him up in any small
treasons, to hear and relish his sarcasms, and to

report faithfully their effect on their subject ;
but in public she was Miss Newbattle, and the
first bride of the family,  and everything connected
with her nuptials must be done decently
and in order.

Well," said Pollaxfen, losing temper at last,
I must say I think it is deuced hard  that I
do. Here have I been and given in to every
single thing you've asked of me, and never asked
anything back. I have let you fix the day, and
invite the people, and settle where we are to go
afterwards  have everything your own way as
pat as you like,  and now, when all I say is,
don't go and inflict your numskull of a sister
upon a man like Evelyn, you insist on doing it!"

Over this they had their first wrangle, but it
was a low, suppressed, limited affair. Neither
wished the matter to come to the surface, and
presently it was hushed up.

Alice held to her point, convinced that whether
Kate were a numskull or not  and she let the
word pass without a comment  she would still
be the proper person to stand next the bride, to
hold her bouquet, and draw off her glove. On her
own wedding-day she must be first ; and since
all eyes would surely on that occasion be benton

her, and she must monopolise the lion's share
of the public attention, it seemed to her not
only immaterial where her sister was placed,
but that it would be foolish in the extreme
to disarranged the order of her bridesmaids on
Evelyn's account.

Rupert would of course be looking at her, not
at Kate. She liked to think that he would certainly
admire her through her Brussels veil, and
pay his respects afterwards to Mrs Pollaxfen
with more deference than he had ever shown
Alice Newbattle. She thought quite enough of
her so-called brother to make his presence on
the all-important day  which was to be so emphatically
her day  a matter of some moment.
He stood forward prominently among the figures
by whom she saw herself surrounded, whenever
the gay scene rose in visions  as in truth it did
perpetually  before her complacent eyes.

The idea of making such an absurd alteration
as Harold proposed !

He had to give way. He had the fear of
Lady Olivia and of the laughter of the dragoons
before his eyes. Married he must be to somebody,
now that he had gone so far ; and to
appease his betrothed, who was certainly not

implacable, he, in his own phrase, " caved

in."

He indemnified himself inwardly, however.
They might get the better of him with their
cranks, and their formulas, and their precedents,
and beat him down because he knew nothing:
about such matters, and had never had any one
to tell him,  he might be made to conform, and
be as good as told that it was not for him to
judge,  but, alone with himself, he slapped his
thigh in triumph. " Dash it ! " he exclaimed,
ril put a spoke in her wheel in spite of them
all! See if I don't!"

PRESSING THE POINT.

More water glide by the mill
Than woes the miller of."

Titus Antoninus.

PoLLAXFEN lost no time in setting about his
errand.

Brushed up, spruced up, fitted out in his very
best, he stepped into a hansom on the morning
after his arrival in London, and only stopping
by the way to purchase and don a hat
which should be up to the august occasion,
drove to the direction given him by Lady
Olivia.

Captain Evelyn was at home, and he was
shown into a room, full of sunshine and spring
flowers, wherein sat the object of his dearest
hopes (the truth must be told, however unflattering

to Miss Newbattle), to whom he made
himself known before time had been given for
any such mistakes as had been anticipated by
his patroness.

"Ah,  have you had breakfast?" said Evelyn,
looking from beneath his eyelids. He did not
care for the appearance of his visitor, and
thought it was too early in the day for a man
of that sort to be going about.

Breakfast ! Pollaxfen thought this was a
dandy indeed, and in no whit resented the
supercilious inspection. It was delightful to
him, whose father had been off to the mill by
six o'clock every morning of his life, to be
talking to a man who asked him at noon if he
had had breakfast ; and he noted down the
remark, even while modestly replying in the
affirmative, and feeling that it was not for him
to ape such gentility.

*'I had mine three hours ago," returned
Evelyn, curtly. " But no one else has. When
did you come up ? "

Last night only. I took the liberty of waiting
on you. Captain Evelyn, the first thing I
did, as your mother Lady Olivia assured me
that I might do so without being considered

intrusive ; I was afraid of finding you out if I
came later on. I hope that you will now allow
me to say  to express the  the great pleasure I
feel in the prospect of being in  in a manner
connected with so distinguished  a-an officer''
All of which was creditably run off, needing
only here and there a correction, as above seen.
It had been conned and got by heart days
before.

"Thanks. Very good, Tm sure'' replied the
distinguished officer, somewhat nonplussed. He
had nothing half so fine to say in return, and
could not help thinking the gratification was
rather lop-sided.

Lady Olivia assured me that I should not betaking
a liberty," reiterated Pollaxfen, vaguely.
He had not ceased to fidget in his chair, roll his
eyes around, and spin round his watch-chain fora
minute. " I happened to be in Town just now ;
come up to look after things, and see people,
don't you know ? And Lady Olivia "  she was
always good to fall back upon at a pinch  " I
told Lady Olivia that I would call if she would
answer for it that you "

'* Oh yes. The sun's in your eyes, isn't it ? "

Not at all  not at all. Well, perhaps it is,

just a bit. If I may move a little this way,  oh,
pray, not you  I am so sorry to be a trouble,"
as his host somewhat negligently pushed a chair
towards him. * Yes, this is better. There is so
much sun outside to-day that  that I see you
get all the benefit. How very  very  the sun
is, to be sure ; and what an uncommonly nice
handsome room you have got here. In the
way of everything, and looking out upon the
Park "

"Hot, out?"

Well, yes  rather. A little different from
Carnochan. When I left there yesterday morning


You left Carnochan yesterday morning ! "
said Evelyn, lifting his head with a start. " Did
you  do you come from Carnochan f"

From Carnochan, yes. Shocking cold there,
I do assure you. Frost on the trees, and ice on
the roads, and all that sort of thing. A wind
that made the marrow in my bones congeal as I
drove to the station. Quite a change after we
crossed the Border, though ; and as we neared
Crewe "

"I had no idea you had come from Car-nolan.
All well there ? All of them at home

again, eh ? What are they about ? When are
they coming to Town 1 " He was another man,
alert, animated, curious.

("I shall get on now," thought Pollaxfen.
Dash it ! if you only know how to take these
swells, you can always make something of them ;
but the difficulty is to know how to hit it off at
the first") Aloud, " Well, Captain Evelyn, they
are not thinking about coming to Town just
now, I should say. You see, there are other
doings in hand, and one other small arrangement
"  facetiously  '' in which I am especially

concerned, that has got to come off " He

paused to be congratulated.

I had no idea you had been at Carnochan,"
pursued Evelyn, as though nothing had been
said. "I knew they had gone back  Lady
Olivia and the rest of them;  her letters are
somewhere "  rising to look among a litter on
the mantelpiece  " but it's no matter ; she never
tells me anything that I care to hear," thinking
not of his visitor at the moment.

Just so  just so," said Pollaxfen, feeling it
only rational that so great a man should let
family matters slip. " I understand. Oh yes ;
I have been at Carnochan for the last six weeks.

I went down as soon as I wa invited ; for owing
to the scarlet-fever "

Scarlet-fever '? What scarlet-fever ? " quickly.

bertha "

''Oh, Bertha."

Who did you suppose it was 'i Alice had
had it as a child,  and a good thing too, or there
might have been the mischief to pay. As it
was, it was as unlucky a piece of work as could
have been ; but for it, we should have been
spliced long ago, and there would have been
no occasion for this confounded Scotch trip.
That's to say'' a little red, " of course it was all
very nice, and that sort of thing, you know, 
and the place is pretty, and I enjoyed myself

uncommonly ; and the family, I'm sure "

with one of the bows Lady Olivia had dreaded.

Evelyn, however, neither saw nor heard.

'' Well, and who was at Carnochan 1 " he inquired
impatiently, having only waited for a
break. " Did you find them all there ? Was
the party entire ? "

Oh, quite. It was very entire indeed," with
a weak sneer. "Nobody missing, and nobody
over. Not a soul to be seen but themselves 
dead time of the year, Lady Olivia said. But

it was all one to me : going there, as I did, for
reasons of my own, other people would only
have been in the way."

Kate has been ill, they tell me," said Evelyn,
getting up to draw down a blind. "Is she better  "

He saw that it was useless to beat about the
bush further. If he wanted information, he
must demand it point-blank.

Better 1 Oh yes, she's better. She  she
is well enough," said Pollaxfen, unable to look
quite as cool as he could have wished to do.
Not that it mattered, had he known as much, 
Evelyn being taken up with his own looks, and
dreaming of nothing less than of inquisition into
his neighbour's.

You saw her ? She is able to be down-stairs ?
She goes about, then ? " said he, more briskly.

Oh, bless you, yes ! She goes about plenty ;
she is always going about. There is nothing to
hinder her."

Then he dropped the subject for the present :
he meant to have more drawn out of him by-and-by,
but not then ; he had other business in
hand first.
"You'll be down on the 21st, Captain
Evelyn ? "

VOL. II. Q

'' The 21st ? That's the wedding, isn't it 1 "

Yes, it is ; oh, you know that. Oh, I hope
that your remembering that is a sign that you
are really disposed to honour us with your company.
I assure you Alice expects it. She
would be "

'I don't know if I can."

'they all hope you will. Lady Olivia has

talked of nothing else "

He caught a smile, and stopped short, wondering
if he might dare to wink. " Oh, well,
you know' he said, " she can't help it ; she
can't help sometimes being a bit prosy, poor
woman."

*' Who are you talking of 1 " said Evelyn, with
a stony stare.

(dash it!" thought Pollaxfen, "that was a
cropper ! There is no knowing how these 
will take a thing")

He was scarlet to the roots of his hair, and
knew not which way to look, nor how to put
things to rights again. " I  I beg your pardon.
I say, wh  what a fine view you have out here,"
stammering hoarsely, "and al  altogether a first-rate
situation. My own house in Palace Gardens"
 the thought of it was an electrical

restorative,  " it  ah  has no view at all to
speak of," he finished off quite calmly.

At last he unfolded his mission.

It created unquestionable surprise ; but he
had been prepared to combat objections, and
even a negative, since it was indispensable to
the rounding off of the fashionable chronicle of
the weddings, that the best man of Harold Arthur
Caractacus Pollaxfen, Esq. of Lime Fields, Lancashire,
and Grayling Hall, Lincoln, should be
Captain Rupert Evelyn, 2d Life Guards.

It would have saved him some trouble, if it
would have made him also start and tremble,
could he have understood all that was meant by
the debating: silence with which he was beinoj
listened to, and the thoughtful pull of his companion's
moustache, as he looked now on the
floor, now from the window, and now at .


As it was, nothing interrupted the latter's
eloquent appeal ; and he bobbed up and down in
his chair, edging it inch by inch along in pursuit
of his object, little recking what he was
about.

"It would really be the kindest thing," he
wound up at last ; " for though I have plenty of

friends of my own, I promised Lady Olivia " (she
would never be "poor woman" again), "and
Alice, and all of them, that I would bring you.
That was to say, I would if I could, of course 
only if I could, mind ; for I knew you would be
full of engagements. Kate '

Well "? " said Evelyn, raising his eyes 
"well?"

"Hum!  ah, I've forgotten what I was going
to say ; 'pon my word, I have. You don't
know Kate? She's not grown up yet, and
rather a  a country bumpkin sort of girl,  she's
not much ; but there are to be some uncommonly
pretty bridesmaids, I can tell you."

Worth coming for, eh ? " There was a lurking
good-humour in the tone ; it was really encouraging.


Oh, I should say so,  rather. I told Alice
to get them. There's a Miss Popham  a
splendid girl "

Susie Popham ? Oh ! "

You know her ? " All at once he was small
on the subject. He had meant to make a great
deal of Miss Popham, and had held her in his
hand as the winning trump to be played, directly
there should be a round of bridesmaids; but

'' Susie Poplin ? Oh 1 " spoilt all. There was
no mistaking the tone, nor its interpretation.

Yes, she is one," he went on, however ;
*' and Mr Charles Newbattle's daughters, distant
cousins  very fine girls, I believe  are others ;
and  and a sister of mine,  but I mustn't say

anything about her, I suppose ? and that's

about all, I believe  at least, it is all I can remember.
There may be more, for Alice was to
get a lot together "

It is quite tempting."

You may believe that. I hope we shall
tempt you though ; that's what I care about
most. You could get away, couldn't you, if it
were only for the day '? "

Possibly."

Well, then, how is it to be ? What am I to
say '? I have not written down yet ; I would
not write till I could give them your answer,
one way or other. What shall it be ? "

Tell them," said Evelyn, after thinking for
some minutes, then he stopped afresh.

"What?" cried Pollaxfen, fairly jumping onto
his legs" what \ "

"That I will."

Delightful ! Is it not 1 " cried Lady Olivia,
when she heard the joyful intelligence. " Everything
is indeed going on well, Alice. Oh, my
dear," to her husband, "Alice has just heard from
Mr Pollaxfen that he has seen Rupert, and that
Rupert has agreed to be his best man at the
wedding, and come down with him the day before.
Eeally, we are lucky people ; we have no
cause for complaint. Nothing but acceptations
from everybody. It seems to me that if we goon
at this rate we shall hardly know where to
put all the wedding-guests."

In her glee and triumph she was quite the
Lady Olivia who had charmed and won the
laird of Carnochan a twelvemonth before ; and
so young and handsome did she appear, that
the flame which had, it must be confessed,
smouldered drowsily within his bosom for a good
while past, broke forth again in some measure.

< Why, my dear," said he, with a little gallant
air, ** to look at you, one would think you
were going to be married yourself."

Of course he was chidden and bantered ; but
he found his favourite dishes on the dinner-table
that night, and not a word was said although
he dozed the whole evening through afterwards.

Mademoiselle, you have seen my son," continued
Lady Olivia, who could scarcely contain
herself at having this crowning piece of good
fortune awarded to her exertions. " Oh yes; you
had just come to Carnochan when he paid us
his first visit. Marjorie, when I told you, last
time we had a surprise, to guess who was coming,
who did you think of immediately '? "

I don t know, mamma. Oh yes, I do, though
Brother Eupert."

*' Eight this time. Brother Eupert is coming
for the wedding."

Then he will see Kate," responded Marjorie.
*' You know, mamma, that he has never seen
Kate, though I used to tell him about her. I
showed him her photograph, and he said she
was not like any of us ; and then, what did he
do but steal it "

What, what, what ! " said Lady Olivia,
laughing.

''Fi done, Marjorie!" reproved Mademoiselle,
in the same breath.

Well, I don't know who did, then," asserted
Marjorie, roundly, ** for I never could find it
afterwards. And you know. Mademoiselle, I
told you at the time."

** But, ma chere, think what it is you say !
You have taken it out yourself ; you are always
change those poor photographs'

I have only changed them three times since
then, and "

Everybody laughed, and nobody heard the
end of the sentence.

Very bad evidence, I am afraid, petite'' 
Lady Olivia shook her head merrily. 'little
people who are always pulling their books to
pieces, must expect to lose one now and then."

'' I never lost it," said Marjorie, obstinately.

It is at the back of another, most likely,"
suggested Alice, with a faint inflection of annoyance
in her tone. '' And such a one as it was !
That horrid old thing with a skirt like a chessboard
"

That was not the one," cried Marjorie, indignantly
; "it was the beautiful one that was
done at the wedding  the one that I cut you
off."

What in the world does the child mean ? "
laughed Lady Olivia.

*' ril tell you, mamma," replied the " child "
for herself. " Alice and Kate were done together,
and Alice was so bad that they were all destroyed

; but I got one,"  with all the glee of
successful roguery,  " and no one knew, and I
just cut Kate off, and pasted her on to a new
card, and it was just beautiful. But I never let
any one see it, till the last time Eupert was
here ; and then I did so want him to know what
Kate was like, that I showed it him as the
very greatest secret, and he told me to put it in
my book, and then he stole it ! "

Everybody could now recollect that a card
had been missing, but to scold Marjorie was unthought
of.

** As if any one would care to take away the
likeness of a person he had never even seen,"
said Alice, scornfully. " There is nothing to get
red about, Kate."

'No, indeed'' assented Lady Olivia, quite
diverted ; * Kate may wait for the culprit to
clear himself, as the charge cannot be said to be
substantiated. Nevertheless, little Marjorie, if
the big brother has been playing the thief, he
must be brought to justice, for who can say
what might go next,  your pink shoes, or my
musical snuff-box ? We shall all be open to
suspicion from such a sharp little detective, if
Eupert be not cleared."

Marjorie saw no joke in it.

"I am sure he really did," she told Kate,
afterwards. " I will tell you why. Because
whoever else I wanted him to look at, he
wouldn't,  he just said, 'Very nice,' or something
of that sort, and kept turning back and
back to that very one of you. And I told him
that he never cared to see any of the others ;
and he only laughed, and said that he could see
all of us every day he was here, but that this
was his only way of seeing you. Then when
he went away he called me up to his room, and
told me to bring my book ; and when he gave it
me again, he had shut it fast ; and he said I was
not to look into it for two whole days, and that
I should find something then. That splendid
one of himself,  that was the something he had
put in ; and I never found out till long, long
after,  not till we were at Brighton, and I was
putting in the new ones that people there had
given me,  that you were gone. As if it could
have got at the back of another," cried Marjorie,
indignantly, "when I had them all out ever so
often ! I just know it was Rupert, whoever
says it wasn't."

** You *just know'" said her sister, glad to

have something to take hold of. '' What an expression,
chill ! "

He had no business to steal yours, even if
he did put in his," said Marjorie, unheeding ;
but ril get it back when he comes to the
wedding'' resolutely. " It is my photograph,
and he must be made to give it up."

Kate, however, got the little girl pacified, and
insured her silence on the subject, by insisting
an the absolute certainty that there was of her
only being laughed at for her pains, if she again
introduced it. To be laughed at, Marjorie did
not like any more than did her betters ; indeed,
she was at the age when children are most sensitive
on the point  old enough to be mortified,
young enough not to know what to say. Her
tongue was thus tied effectually.

And she had done no mischief, since no one
but the sister concerned had the most glimmering
perception of there being any basis for the
fabulous indictment, and since in Kate's eyes
the crime was only too venial. She certainly
petted and fondled Marjorie extravagantly that
day, and gave her things more intrinsically precious
than the lost likeness. The world was
flooded for her with a new light since the morning.

She found no interruptions irksome, and
no restrictions unkind. She trotted hioh and
low on errands, with feet that scarcely felt the
floor beneath. She moved on air.

And what was the meaning of it all ?

Oh, it was very plain, very easy to be understood
: it was so delightful to be rid of Pollaxfen,
and to see Alice more like her natural self again;
and with a happier state of mind had come
the feeling that the prospect before her sister
had been darker to her distempered imagination
than it might prove in reality;  and then Lady
Olivia was quite inoffensive for the time being ;
and she was herself getting so well and strong,
and at her own dear, beautiful home again.
Surely nothing more was needed to account fora
light heart ?

For some days it lasted ; then came the reaction.


Upon what was she building ? When she
picked to pieces the fabric woven of day-dreams
and night-waking, she found it float away into
thin air.

Mademoiselle was the kindest person in the
house to Kate just then. All the rest were too
busy to notice anything amiss; but there were

reasons why the little lynx-eyed brunette took
a special interest in observing how Meets Kate
comported herself at this juncture. We have
said that no one of the family at Carnochan
found out Pollaxfen's baseness, with the exception
of the insulted girl herself: but Mademoiselle
Pierrepoint was not of the Newbattle
family ; she knew all about it.

It entertained her hugely.

But then, what was she to make of this burning
brow and these flushed eyelids, with which
Monsieur Silverstick, an ape  canaille  here 
had surely nothing to do \

She was, for once in her life, fairly at a loss.
All going on well  no quarrels, no worries  and
yet the sunshine gone from one face which had
so lately been irradiated. It must be that Kate
was fonder of this sister, who was so soon to
leave them, than she had ever shown herself
to be.

She is lonely and sad, this poor petites''  a
cold hand would be laid gently over the heavy
brows,  " her sister goes, and she is left solitaire
in this so triste Carnochan, to roam about these
dark gloomy woods all day long. Cheer up,
mon enfant; you come next. Miladi will soon

have another helle-fille, aussi charmante, plus
belle que Mademoiselle Alice, to introduce. She
brings you out next season, n'est-ce pas f You
are not eighteen till July % N'importe  what area
few months, more or less ? We will see that
Miladi will so herself consider, and that you go
chez Londres with her toute de suite."

I do not care to go, Mademoiselle. I prefer
to stay here."

You prefer to stay here ! Here ! Mais ce
n'est pas possible ! It is not to be believed !
Ma chere, you are ill, sick, strengthless ; I see
you often with the tear in your eye. That Mr
Pollaxfen did annoy you much,  that, I did see
for myself Ah, pardon ! oui, oui, ma petite
certain it is best not to speak of such things.
I did not mean to offend."

' I am not offended," said Kate, in some surprise;
"but. Mademoiselle, I assure you that I
am not thinking of Mr Pollaxfen with a tear
in my. eye," smiling at the idea ; " he is not
very polite to me, but "

Mais oui,  yes, truly ; yes, I comprehend
what it is you would say. It is nothing to you
whether he is polite or not ; he is polite to no
one, he is "

Alice's future husband," said Alice's sister,
quickly. She would not allow a breath of disparagement
against the man whom she, of all
others, had reason to think slightly of, and her
tone expressed its meaning plainly.

Mademoiselle gave her a queer look. " True,
true ; preciseness' she said ; *' and as Alice's
futur you will now only give yourself leave to
look upon him."

* Could T ever have looked upon him as anything
else ? You do not imagine " She

bit her lip.

Non mon amie, I imagine nothing. But I
see something else  autre chose  which is not
imagine at all. Comment f Ah, so ; we speak
of this not more. We will be so discreet  "prudent,
 we understand what we understand."

In short, she understood to hold her tongue,
and that was the great thing. From her secure
vantage-ground she had, as we have said, had a
bird's-eye view of the affair ; and had there been
anything going forward in the evenings, she
would not have found Rousseau and the peignoir
more attractive ; but the evenings had been
utterly unprofitable, since it was not in the

formal circle, and amidst the platitudes which
then passed, that languishing murmurs could be
safely launched : and accordingly, to the evening
hours Pollaxfen had trusted for maintaining
his position with regard to his avowed ladylove
; but all the tricks, the shifts, the turns
of the game, had been manifest to the quick-witted
governess, who, when once on the track,
had many a time doubled on the pursuer and
dogged him, when he was dogging and worrying
Kate !

She longed now for a little confidence, just to
show how clever she had been, and to have the
odd holes and corners of her chart of the scheme
filled up. There were one or two little points
as to which her present companion alone could
have satisfied her ; and above all, she yearned
to hear to what pitch the traitor had gone, before
she had met him (accidentally 1), infuriated and
checkmated, after his final effort. She had run
up against Monsieur ere he had had time to quit
the spot.

Vain, however, was it to hope for any relenting
in the severe young face. " For at least, she
shall not talk of it to me," thought Kate.

Eh hens' continued Mademoiselle, presently,
'' it is not Carnochan, and it is not M. Pollard
and I am not to know what it is. I do not
like to see this poor little eat so thin and white.
She was stronger, better, when first she arrive ;
she is too much alone,  she thinks, and gets no
rest, n'est ce pass But she must not sit down
and weep. Ah, quest ce a dire f " compassionately.
' She breaks down at nothing ! "

You are right, my kind Mademoiselle ; I
break down at nothing  nothing whatever. I
am foolish and weak. You see yourself that
I am not fit for gaieties."

Vraiment, non; pas d present. But my
dear Meets Kate, you have one, two months in
which to convalesce, to grow well. As soon as
this wedding is over  oui, oui  I say no more.
She is confuse, bewilder,  she has been en retraite
; and the noise, the talk, and all that is so
bryant,  it is too much."

Presently she went away, and came back
radiant, with a brimming glass of port - wine
in her hand.

She had begged it from the butler; and it
.quite touched the poor soul, who had her good

VOL. II. n

points as well as other people, to find her little
offering received with so much gratitude.

What it is to have a heart ! " she exclaimed
mentally in her own language. " For my part, I
am not emprise with any one, however agreeable,
obliging, and polite, if they have no heart ! "

CHAPTEK XXIII.

POLLAXFEN IS CARRIED OUT OF HIS DEPTH.

A lie is troublesome, and needs a good many more to make it

out. "  TiLLOTSON.

Without the assistance of a heart, however, or
even of those attributes which the gay Frenchwomen
considered next in value, the bridegroom-elect
was contriving to progress fairly well in his
new suit.

He certainly was diligent enough, in season
and out of season. Evelyn was wooed far more
industriously than Alice had ever been ; and to
be permitted to call and take an arm-chair, to
be nodded to when met, and allowed, on one
occasion, to act as entertainer, was all the
aspirant looked for in return.

He was tolerated, and that was enough.

It may indeed be questioned whether even

that satisfaction would have been his had it not
been for the sake of the very girl towards whom
he now nourished a sentiment of the deepest
aversion, and whom it was an object with him,
second only to securing Evelyn's support at
his marriage, to traduce and create a prejudice
against.

Had there been no Kate in the question, it is
more than doubtful whether any tie formed by
Evelyn's mother would have been strong enough
to have made such an intimate endurable to him.
There would have been no rudeness,  as Lady
Olivia observed, no one had ever heard her son
say a disagreeable thing,  but he would have
been perfectly able to defend himself. On Kate's
account alone he forbore. He would not flout
the man who was to be her near connection, and
who had, moreover, given him such an account of
her restoration to health and strength as would
have taken him to Scotland ere long at any
rate.

The opportunity, coming with the information,
made him owe something to so timely a
messenger.

It wanted but two days to the 21st. The
two were together in Evelyn's rooms discussing

the topic, which seemed to have equal interest
for both ; and PoUaxfen held in his hand
a magnificent pendant, as to the taste of which
he wished to have his friend's opinion.

It's to be worn on the day, you know ; while
I am about it, I may as well do the thing handsomely.
I think it is rather neat, this."

The neat article was a blazing mass of brilliant
; and in so far as diamonds are always
worth looking at, it was certainly superior in its
external to its internal attractions, which consisted
of the features of the donor.

I have got Alice here, you see," continued
Pollaxfen, opening a locket attached to his
watch-chain; "and so I thought she ought to
have me. This is a first-rate likeness of her;
have you seen it ? "

He handed it across.

Very good," pronounced Evelyn ; " but not
so good as Kate's." He had been thinking of
Kate all day, excited at the near prospect of
seeing her again, and unable to resist the inclination
to bring in her name whenever a chance
offered. Had Pollaxfen been almost any other
than what he was, he might, and it is probable
he would, have heard the whole story ; but as it

was, there was no getting nearer it than drawing
occasionally to the introduction of subjects likely
to call up her image.

Not so good as Kate's ! " repeated PoUaxfen.
I don't know that at all' He had never seen
one, to his recollection ; but that was immaterial.
I don't know that at all," said he. *' Of course
you will say, however," correcting his asserting
tone, 'that I am no judge. Neither I am; but
still I may be allowed to say that, to my mind,
whatever others may think, Alice's is incomparably
the best,  and, if I may add as'much, that
she is also the best subject."

*' Of course," said his companion, with a laugh,
" of course."

"You don't agree? But they tell me you
have never seen your other sister ? "

No sister of mine, my dear fellow,  I leave
that felicity for you. Sisters are not in my
line. I "  with a peculiar and significant emphasis
 " I would not have her for a sister, if I
could."

It was an odd thing to say; and stranger still
was the manner in which, after saying it, the
speaker smiled to himself, paused, seemed to
listen, and look at something in front,  paused

a full minute,  then, with the smile still on his
face, turned, appeared to recollect where he was,
and addressed his companion : " She's rather a
pickle, this Miss Kate, is she not ? "

PoUaxfen shrugged his shoulders.

Kicks over the traces at times, eh 1 "

I believe you,  rather."

What a reprobate ! " continued Evelyn, with
the same mocking voice that had formerly denounced
" naughty Kate " to her face. " What
a nuisance in a quiet household ! Poor Lady
Olivia ! It must be a trial to have a step-daughter
of that sort."

That it is ! Just so. I am sure it is."

'' Some one ought to reason with the young
lady, and bring her to her senses."

He would be a bold man who would undertake
it, I should say."

A bold man, eh 1 A bolder man than
you, PoUaxfen ? You were not ' bold ' enough,
I suppose 1 "

He seemed to enjoy the suggestion. He had
never been so genial, so jocose with his visitor
before ; and there was an unguarded sparkle in
his eye, and an evident relish for the subject,
which struck PoUaxfen all at once.

"Impossible," he thought. "Impossible."
Yet do what he would, he could not rid himself
of the idea that Evelyn was either under the
influence of liquor or of love.

The former 1

No. They had been dining, it was true, and
were sipping their claret together as they chatted,
 during the repast they had had a glass or
two of champagne, and some sherry, but that
was all ; there was nothing to account for the
suddenness of this jovial tone, this relaxation of
formality in a man who had undeniably held
him hitherto at arm's length.

No, it could not be wine.

Love then ? Not love extant, but love prospective,
 the sort of amused interest which
might easily be induced by hearing much of a
handsome, mischievous girl who was shortly to
be thrown in his way ? Even this was alarming
enough; he actually trembled to think
of what might be the effect of Kate Newbattle
on an imagination already prepared.

Kate in the flesh Evelyn might never have
witnessed, but it appeared that he was sufficiently
acquainted with what her countenance
must be to enable him to .laugh ironically at

the bridegroom's proper declaration in favour
of her sister.

Nor could Pollaxfen help a sudden memory
recurring at this most unfortunate epoch, of
how he had himself been affected by his first
view of thafc beautiful countenance. Vividly
there came back upon him his first startled
consciousness of something wrong, the faint
struggle with honesty and honour, the speedy
yielding to temptation, and then the delicious
dream too soon and rudely dispelled.

Now he could think of nothing more to say.

Evelyn, however, himself  poor silly moth 
took another flight round his candle.

Assuredly he was ofi" his head in thus paying
court to danger, talking of the very subject he
ought to have let alone, and betraying himself
in every sentence. Had his companion not
been so full of his own business, and so eager
to find an opportunity for transacting it, without
seeming to do so, he must have seen far
more than he did. As it was, he merely felt
that the other was warmed, exhilarated, and
in the mood to be confidential,  and that, accordingly,
now was his time.

I tell you what," began Evelyn again.

'' don't let them take you in by what they say
of Kate. Kate is a beauty "

A beauty ! Oh, dash it, no ! "

No ? "  he had no conception of the tone in
which he spoke. " No f I tell you she is a
beauty, such as you have never seen ''

('He is drunk," thought Pollaxfen. "Certainly
he is drunk")

"She is brave, generous, good," continued
the speaker. " She is clever, brilliant,  she is
full of poetry and romance,  an ornament to
any society,  an angel in any house "

Pollaxfen breathed hard. " You forget," said
he, softly, " that you have never seen her."

He was met by a stare. Evelyn had forgotten
the man's presence. Perhaps, though
not what could be called confused with wine,
his brain was not quite so clear as it might
have been at a cooler moment : he was certainly
taken by surprise at the interruption, at being
thus pulled up short in the midst of his panegyric
; and it was not for several seconds that
he was apparently able to comprehend what
he had been saying amiss.

The blunder discovered, however, he still continued
to stare, but the expression of his face

altered,  the eyes remained fixed on his companion,
but a new intelligence dawned within them ;
the corners of his mouth distended and began
to part, and finally he burst into another of the
noisy laughs that had at first aroused attention.

PoUaxfen thought it well to smile. " I am
sorry for you, Evelyn'*

"Thanks, I'm sure. Never mind what for."

You have formed such a charming picture
in your own mind, that it is a thousand pities
it is  only a picture."

Only a picture, is it '? Oh ! "

"What a splendid imagination you must
have ! "

Splendid. I always had."

But what made you fasten on the idea of
Kate Newbattle, to dress it up in such gorgeous
colours ? "

"Why not? I know that she is handsome.
I am ready to find in her every other virtue."

How do you know that she is handsome 1 "

"How do I know? Look here." Some
irresistible impulse prompted him to produce
the very portrait with whose loss Marjorie had
charged him. He had deserved the imputation
 he had stolen it, as she said ; and unable

to resist the inclination of the moment, he now
brought it from an inner apartment, and held
it out to the sceptic with triumph in his look.
There ! " he said ; '' I want no other evidence."

Pooh I " said PoUaxfen, trying hard for contempt.
"You admire that?" (sand half in
love with the bit of pasteboard already," ashe
covertly marked the expression with which
his companion suffered his eyes to rest for a
minute on the too-well-remembered features.
This will never do ! How did he get it ?
Why did he not say before that he had it "? ")
"You admire that?" was, however, all that
he could trust himself to say, aloud.

"If ever I admired anything in this world,
I admire that."

Good gracious ! you don't say so ! Well,
upon my word, it's uncommonly disagreeable
really I don't know what to do. You seem so
hard hit, or rather you might be so hard hit, 
for, of course, it's all moonshine at present, and
that sort of thing,  that  hum  ha  you put a
fellow into a regular fix, don't you see ? That's
to say "

I never saw a finer eye ; and such a lip I
such a brow I A mixture of passion and sweetness,

storm and sunlight,  one moment all fire,
the next "

(" Having, I declare ! I must look sharp,"
muttered the watcher, scarcely knowing what
to make of the scene. " It must be hot and
strong too, confound it all ! ") Aloud  " Eeally,
you know, I can't help it; a fellow feels so
deuced awkward when it comes to this. I
wish you Avouldnt, Evelyn,  upon my soul,
I do. I don't want to be forced to make
unpleasantness, especially considering that Fm
just entering the family myself; but still it's 
it's  there is such a thing as  as  don't you
know 1 "

As what ? I say, you had better be off
now, hadn't you '? You are going somewhere
to-night, and you'll be late if you don't."

He was now eager to be alone, to indulge in
reverie, to give himself up to remembrance, and
the delirium of love and hope which had been
rekindled by the sight of the beloved and
beautiful face, joined as it was to the thought
that within a few hours' time he should again
behold it animated with life and feeling, in
smiles, in blushes, and in tears. He could not
longer be hampered by playing a part; he

must be rid of spectators, of every jarring
presence.

I had been going to the theatre," replied
Pollaxfen, accentuating the 'had,"  "I had
meant to see "

Nine o'clock. You'll be late, but you'll

come in for the after-piece. Good night ; see
you tomorrow."

Had the emergency not been so desperate,
the hint would have been too broad to have
been disregarded ; but the bull-dog blood in
Pollaxfen was up, and he would not relax his
hold.

To tell the truth, I have got something on
my mind, which I can't, in conscience, go and
leave unsaid. Never mind the theatre to-night.
Hang it all, what is it to give up an hour's
amusement for the sake of a friend ? "

If you mean me " said Evelyn, with a

bitter-sweet smile that finished off the sentence
perfectly.

Pollaxfen reddened.

'' Oh, I see ; of course I'm to go, and that's
all about it. But it's deuced hard that you
won't listen to me, when it's aU for your own
sake that I'm trying to tell it you "

"It? what?"

"If it hadn't been for the way you went
on about her to - night, I should have held
my tongue. But after what I have seen, and
knowing what I do, it would be a shabby trick
to leave you in the dark. We are both men of
the world,  dash it, don't look like that !  you
are a man of the world then  I don't pretend
to be,  but still I would do you a good turn if I
could, and all I have to say is, whatever happens,
keep clear of Kate Newbattle."

'all you have to say!" broke out Evelyn,
with an oath. " It's not enough, I suppose ?
What are you up to, I wonder ? What's the
meaning of all this insane pretence of mystery,
and melodramatic humbug ? What's at
the bottom of it ? "

"There's no pretence," retorted Pollaxfen,
angrily. Then he recollected himself, and took
refuge behind a sulky scowl. " I have done all
I could to get your ear before, and at last you
turn upon me and snarl, as if it were my fault
that I had to speak in a way to make you
attend." <

Get on ; never mind."

Am I to speak out ? "

'' Speak out ; the plainer the better. Only be
quick about it."

Fm not one of the family yet, you'll say,
and have no business with the family secrets,
especially as it appears you have not been intrusted
with them ; but if you haven't been told
about Kate "

That she broke a blood-vessel in the

autumn."

That was the beginning of it. No uncommon
thing either ; but the fact is, she has always
been excitable and queer,  and whether it was
the loss of blood, or something of the kind 
that's what the doctors say, at least  she's been
as mad as a March hare ever since. Stop  I
don't quite mean that,"  for Evelyn had sprung
from his chair,  "she's not wrong except on
certain points. If you were to meet her, you
would think her as sane as anybody; but touch
her on  well, I'll show you how it was. She
had only just got home when I went down, and
she behaved like other people, I thought, and I
had no notion of anything wrong; but she
nearly played the very deuce with me afterwards,
for it turns out that her craze is, that
everybody she meets is in love with her ; and no

sooner did I appear than she began making eyes
at me, and following me everywhere, and pestering
my life out 1 That wouldn't have mattered,
although it was a nuisance ; but what
must she do next but go to Alice,  to the girl
I was courting, d ye see ?  and make believe
that I was the offending party !  / / There
was quite a scene. Poor Alice was the one
to be pitied the most  for of course at that
time she hadn't had proof positive that I was
on the square with her ; and though she knew
well enough the state her sister was in, she
couldn't at first take in all that she was up to.
Oh, Kate was violent and positive to a degree,
Alice told me afterwards. Luckily, I got an
inkling of what was going on,  for she took me
to task herself when Alice tried to put her right.
Ha, ha, ha !  upon my word, I felt quite the
gay Lothario ;  but I can tell you it was no
joke to my own poor girl. Why, we were all
but engaged before ever she left Brighton ! I
had been after her from the very first, dangling
at her heels the whole time she was there, and
had made no bones about it ! A fellow there, 
a Captain Defour,  tried to cut in before me,
but he soon had his nose put out of joint, I

VOL. II. s

can tell you. Alice would not look at him !
He "

"Let Defour alone. Go on."

Oh yes, ril go on. Well, I tell you, I
went straight ahead from the very first. As
soon as they left Brighton, so did I ; and as soon
as ever they were ready for me, I went to Car-nolan.
Everybody supposed it was Alice who
took me there  and a deuced good right they
had to suppose it, too. Well, that's about all ;
for directly I got the hint, as I say, I went for
it at once. I wasn't going to stand any nonsense,
and that sort of thing, though I was
sorry for the poor simpleton, who  who  well,
we won't be too hard upon her, only it was
uncommonly nasty for us all, you know."

Well ? " said Evelyn, in a hard, dry tone.

*' Kate doesn't speak to me now, and just as
well she doesn't ! Alice says she will hardly
yet allow that I haven't used her badly. Look
here," pulling a letter out of his pocket, which
he had carefully placed there some days before,
" look here,  oh, you may see the whole letter
if you like  only miss out the little bit of affection
at the end," with a smirk ; " but here's the
part I want you to see, because you ought to

know that I'm telling you only the plain truth,
and that Alice will back me up. This came
to-day from Alice. See," pointing with his
finger. "Now read that."

Evelyn read in Alice's unmistakable large
sprawling band, of which he had had a specimen
only the week before : " Kate is more extraordinary
than ever about you. She would stop
our marriage even now, if she could. But we
don't need to mind, do we, dear ? No one can
come between us now."

That was all. It had been penned in a cross
fit, consequent on finding that her exuberant
anticipations of a blissful career as Mrs Pollard
had been met only by a mournful gravity
on the part of her sister. It had given a little
malicious pleasure to confide to Harold that
Kate was " extraordinary."

"And so you see," proceeded the owner of
the letter, recovering it, " that I aunt speaking
ofi" the book. Alice knows what she's talking;
about when she says Kate would stop our marriage
yet if she could. I suppose she thinks
that I am hers by right, and she does not
stop to consider where poor Alice would be if
that were the way. Was it likely that I would

have gone all the way to Kirkcudbright if I
hadn't been in downright earnest about Alice '?
Lady Olivia knows how I took up with her from
the first, danced with her, rode with her, tooled
her about to churches on Sundays, and went
the whole bag of tricks. I had no more idea
of not having Alice than of jumping over the
moon ! I never once gave a thought to Kate."

You did not ? "

No, rather. Before I would have taken up
with such a cursed shrew " he stopped, recollecting
himself. "A fellow cant help being
riled a bit,"  every minute his language grew
more offensive, as though to keep pace with the
grossness of the sentiments for which it was a
medium,  " when you remember, Evelyn, that
she had nearly done me as bad a turn as woman
could do, you can't wonder that though she is
only an imbecile  well, of course, I shouldn't
say that "

' Have the goodness not to say it again."

"Well, I won't; but you mustn't be down
on me for a word. I make all the allowances I
can, but I was put into a pretty hole as it was,
nearly choused out of my girl, and made a fool
of before everybody ! Who's to be cool and

easy upon that ? It's about as much as I can
do to keep in, when I'm at Carnochan ; and if
you had not begun about her looks, and her, I
don't know what all, and put my back up with
your "

Let me alone, will you ? There is no need
to bring me in."

"I only wanted to point out why I spoke,
Evelyn ; you needn't snap me up like that. It's
hard lines when a fellow is trying to do you a
kindness that you should treat him as if he were
a cur."

You are a cur."

Sir ! " cried Pollaxfen, starting.

I say you are a cur, and you ought to have
a muzzle put upon your confounded mouth for
the rest of your days. How many more people
have you gone to, bragging of your conquest,
curse you I It was a nice thing to do to go to
a house, and have both sisters at your beck and
call, wasn't it ? I wonder you were content
with only the two ! There's another not much
younger, and if you had played your cards well,
she might have made a figure in the tale too."

Captain Evelyn," said Pollaxfen, with a vain
attempt at being dignified, " this is not wh 

wh  what I can possibly submit to. I m 

m  make allowances "

"Oh, you have made allowances all round,

we know  allowances for Alice, allowances for
Kate, and now for me. Confound your allowances
! Be off ! "

You will be sorry for this, Captain Evelyn''

Or you will."

* What I have done to deserve this at your
hands, I cannot imagine," said Pollaxfen, desperate
at the sight of such an ending to all his
machinations. " It was you yourself who obliged
me to speak  to tell you the story "

Which I don't believe a word of."

"You listened, at any rate."

Listened ? I had to listen. How should I
know what I was going to hear ? "

Why should it put you out so ? It was all
hushed up and kept quiet. No one knows a
thing about it,  about our  our interest in the
case, except Alice and me. She won't thank
me for telling you,  for they are all determined
to let out to no one what is the matter,  but
then what could I do ? I'm going,  you need
not point at the door,  but if you will only
think it over quietly, Evelyn, "

*' No more of that. Don't you call me ' Evelyn'
again. * Think it over quietly"? This is
what I'll think wien I think it over quietly,
that if what you have told me has a grain of
truth in it, you are the meanest hound on the
face of the earth ever to let it blister your
lips ; if you have made it up, you're a liar. Go
out of that door, and never let me set eyes on
you again."

' Certainly I shall never tr  trouble you more,
Ca  Captain Evelyn."

The door closed behind him.

Evelyn rose, bolted it, and staggered back to
the mantelpiece. There he laid down his head
upon his arms, crying like a child.

CHAPTER Xxii. ,

AND HAS BOTH FAILURE AND SUCCESS.

But it is not the lie that passeth through the mind, but the lie that
sinketh in and settled in it, that doth the hurt."  Bacon.

He tried not to believe the story, but alas ! it
was too plausible.

Loathing as he did the vile informer, he could
not, when freed from the contamination of his
presence, preserve the aspect of disdainful incredulity
which had served him in such good
stead for the hour of trial. *

For this was what he thought  " Of that disturbed
brain, of that unhinged mind, I am the
cause''

The thought was torture.

He it was who had led his poor Kate on to
the knowledge of good and evil, instructed her
in the great arts of love and misery.

She had learned easily ; he had taught thoroughly.

He had found her a simple school-girl ;
he had left her an agonised woman.

And the result was this. She had come to
fear every man who approached her ; to fear, 
not to love, as Pollaxfen would have had him
believe, but to fear and to shrink from.

As she had found Evelyn acting a part upto
the very moment of his declaration, it had
seemed to her that others, whilst feigning themselves
to be mere neighbours, friends, relations,
might, with equal suddenness, reveal a passion.
Could this lover of Alice's, this goggle-eyed, pigheaded
toad, have dared to assume towards the
beautiful Kate some of those brotherly ways
which  pah ! was it possible that he had ? And
could she, poor, bewildered, dazed child, have fallen
into the cruel mistake which had revealed her
state to hirffi, from any odious pleasantries of his ?

He thought it over, writhing every new moment
under a new torment. But, think as he
might, it seemed as though no other explanation
was possible.

Alice's letter, and Pollaxfen's frequent reference
to her,  the facts that were all too patent to
be disputed,  one after another wrung his heart
with throes indescribable.

And there were other features of the case
which had terrible power to bear it out, as they
recurred to memory.

All that had been said of the excitable temperament,
well known to Evelyn, was true,  too
true. Had he not himself cautioned her, in
those bewitching days when she had sat by his
side to be chidden and admonished,  had he not
then bade her have a care lest the hot blood which
boiled so readily, did not bring her into trouble,
deeper than any she had yet experienced ?

He had wisely counselled ; but how shortsighted
had been the policy he had ultimately
pointed out !

The very silence regarding him, and all that
had passed between them, which he had enjoined,
and which he had known at the time
would be sacredly kept, had inflamed the malady,
if it had not actually originated it.

With no outlet for her feelings, and the necessity
for preserving reticence upon every point
connected with the episode of which her mind
was full,  with, in addition, the constant strain
of keeping watch in case of sudden revelations,
she must have had more laid upon her already
overcharged brain than it could sustain.

It had given way, and only now he had
learned as much ; only now, when, happy in his
constancy, his love, and his hopes of a new
success, he had been gazing upon the fair
prospect before him with beaming eye, it had
shrivelled away as a parched scroll.

There was something noble about Evelyn.

He did not bewail his punishment; he did
not feel that he was being severely handled for
having attempted to take what was at worst buta
timorous and foolish course; nor did he say to
himself, as many a man in his place would have
said, that he had done no harm, that he had
acted as straightforwardly under such a temptation
as the most rigid moralist could have
expected.

He had, he might have thought, treated Miss
Newbattle fairly. He had made her an honest
offer ; and had she closed with it, and carried
out its conditions, she would have been considered
by all,  even by those who might not
have approved of the manner of her doing so,
to have made a brilliant match.

He was wealthy, well-born, courted and run
after wherever he chose to turn ; and it must
be allowed that when the first idea of wedding

poor neglected Kate entered into his head, he
had looked upon it coldly.

He had felt it would not do.

But he had been caught ere he knew what he
was doing. Her beauty had dazzled him, her
spirit had enchanted him.

He had found himself fast bound; and had
then, and only then, discovered that there was
no possible reason why he should not do as he
chose, since it was certain he would have no
cause to repent.

But whilst preserving just so much coolness
of judgment as had enabled him to take the
future into consideration, and decide that he
would not have occasion to rue in after-life the
impulse under which he was acting, he had not
been disposed to let slip the coveted pleasure of
the moment.

His fancy had fastened on the idea of possessing
this forlorn, beautiful, wild-eyed creature,
in the very height of her desolation and abandonment
by her own kindred ; of raising her to
the throne of his arms from the very midst of
the mean surroundings with which it had been
purposed to abase her ; of making that life,
which was so listless, weary, and ungenial, all

at once a trance of happiness, far beyond what
any one of them  his mother, or her father, or
sisters  in their miserable devotion to self, could
form a conception of.

In him his Kate would have found her all; in
his being, hers.

He would have been her companion as well
as her lover, her friend and sympathiser as well
as her betrothed. She had hitherto been misconstrued,
misguided, silenced,  she should have
been so no longer. At her true value she should
have found one to rate her at last. His peerless
Kate ! The decision once arrived at, he had yielded
himself unreservedly to the delightful vision,
and had never for an instant forecast the manner
in which the proposal had eventually been taken.

The Comlines, he had opined, would need a
little management  he must volunteer considerable
explanations and asseverations; but that his
sweetheart,  she who had shown herself of late
obedient to his slightest look, submissive as wax
beneath his touch,  should thwart him at the
outset, had been incredible.

And now, in looking back upon that hour,
through which so many strange and conflicting
emotions had succeeded each other, one feeling

alone filled his soul to the exclusion of every
other, and that was anguish for her.

If ever remorse was unselfish it was his.

Even the pang of having been himself the
author of her misery, was presently swallowed
up in the thought of that misery itself; he was
not unworthy of the heart he suffered for.

Some time elapsed before other recollections
and considerations could intrude themselves,
but at length he was sufficiently himself to reflect
in some dismay on what would be all the
separate results of his rupture with PoUaxfen.

The man who could reveal once, was not
likely to be more reticent again.

He had done his best to blacken poor unwitting
Kate since he had conceived his love-affair
to have been endangered by her, even
although it had come forth ultimately unscathed
; how much more would he rage against
both her and her self-constituted champion, now
that Evelyn had discredited him, sworn at him,
and turned him out of doors !

Supposing that his statements, exaggerated
and loathsome though they were, had still the
basis of truth which their recipient shuddered
to think, in too great likelihood, must be conceded

them, it would be in the power of the
despised wretch many a time to gibe at and
taunt the defenceless girl.

That would be one result of the past hour.

And then how about the wedding 1

Go down  having quarrelled with the bridegroom,
and thrown up the post which everybody
knew he had accepted ? It was not to
be thought of. Pollaxfen himself would be in
something of a plight, which was in its way
satisfactory,  and unassuming as Evelyn was,
he had just a touch of grim pleasure in escaping
from having his name linked with that of the
mill-man's son,  but as soon as Carnochan was
cleared of the obnoxious presence, should he not
repair thither and find out for himself the worst ?

Had his own feelings alone been consulted,
this would undoubtedly have been the next
move ; but what if the mere sight of him should
be too much for the poor child '? What if she
should be rendered still more distraught by the
sudden apparition of the man she had loved
and had driven from her, than even by being
a perpetual witness of all that had passed between
Pollaxfen and her sister.

The sight of those two in the height of their

billing and cooing had doubtless recalled scenes
and recollections which had led to a development
of the frenzy within ; and if so, what might not
be dreaded from the sight of him 1

No one could help her, as no one had warned
him,  since none but themselves knew what
these things meant. She had had to stand
alone, and she had given way. He durst not
think of it.

And what use to speak ? Lady Olivia could
put him off, as she had done hundreds of times
before, if he endeavoured to elicit information
from her.

Alice 1 But he had the testimony 'of Alice
already.

Kate herself ? Alas ! on such a score her
voice had no weight.

And then he did not, as we have said, doubt
that Pollaxfen was so far to be relied on, in that
he had stated facts to which he had given his
own colouring.

That he nourished an enmity to the object of
his tirade was self-evident, but it might be that
his doing so was explicable by his looking on
her as a half-crazed creature who had been
caught in the act of undermining the ground

which he was studiously working upon. It was
intelligible that he should have been resentful
after such a discovery.

And again, there was Pollaxfen's having followed
Alice from Brighton at a time when he
had certainly never beheld her sister, as well as
Alice's radiant little note, and her confiding tone
in the very composition which had been shown
to Evelyn. Oh, the evidence was damning 
damning !

As for Alice, how could she bring herself to
marry such a man '? How could his mother
have had the face to raise a joyful noise over
such a union ?

He felt bitter and wrathful contempt for both.

They were a couple, he said. For the future
he would have still less to do with the former
than he had ever had to do with the latter ; it
was one comfort that hereafter he would not
need even to know Mrs Pollaxfen when he met
her. But although at intervals such speculations
and self-gratulations flitted across Evelyn's
mental vision, they never remained; one thought
alone lay like a load at the bottom of his sorrowful
heart  Kate, poor Kate !

How merry and mirthful he had been but one

VOL. II. T

short hour before I How joyously he had told
his acquaintance lately of his intentions of
running up North for a wedding, laughing to
himself at their lugubrious inquiries as to the
possibility of his being able to get off, and at
their condoling with him on his being impressed
on such a service of boredom.

Get off, indeed ! He had been counting the
hours between the present one and that of departure,
in his heart.

They had marvelled at his stoicism. Evelyn,
they said among themselves, could go through
anything ; there were no limits to his powers of
endurance. He would make a spree out of a
funeral, if nothing better offered; and a wedding
being certainly next door to a funeral, he was
only true to himself in being airy at the prospect.

Then they took ten to one that he would back
out at the last.

Evelyn had roared when he was told of this,
and had kept the ball going. He had never
alleged that he would not back out, but the
idea had seemed to tickle his fancy prodigiously,
all the same.

He had told everybody he came across what
he was going to do. He had stopped old Andrew
MaccuUoch, whom he had not spoken to. for

years, to have a chat about the Galloway country,
whence Macculloch came. He had allowed 
to hang about him, and had awed down
remark and disparagement by the simplicity of
his protection. Evelyn's wedding, as it was
called, had been the joke of the hour.

Then Pollaxfen had fussed, and bustled, and
hunted up trains, and made an ado about everything.


Rooms \ Yes ; Evelyn had allowed that
rooms might as well be written for to the inn,
for one night. On the next, one of the two
would be far enough away, and the other would
be installed at Carnochan. He had given out
readily that he would be in no hurry to return
to Town ; that he would certainly have to stay
and cheer up the doleful people left behind.

People always were doleful after a wedding,
weren't they 1 Well, it would be an act of
charity to console them in their bereavement.

And as he had thus spoken, he had in his
mind's eye stood with Kate by his side in the
oriel window of her turret-chamber, and taken
her out upon the lake beneath, and whispered
in her ear amid lovely woodlands overspread
with blue-bells. . . .

All was over now.

Nothing remained but dust and ashes of the
beauteous fruit he had so nearly gathered.

Nothing was left but the image of a sorrow-stricken
maid dumbly enduring her burden of
grief, and irresponsible for what she did when
goaded by its torment.

Durst he risk inciting a fresh outbreak ?

Knowing what he knew, he felt he dared not.
That, at least, she should be spared. Perhaps
Evelyn was wrong,  knowing what we know,
undoubtedly he must seem so ; but he was at
least honest,  and that he was unable at the
moment to think with calmness, or to reason at
all, should not surely be reckoned against him.

Pollaxfen could not have chosen a better
moment for instilling his poison. His auditor
had been previously animated, uplifted, off his
guard,  it followed that the sudden shock threw
his blood into a ferment which he could not
master. Self-sacrifice  and self-sacrifice on
Kate's account  was the only idea that seemed
to do him any good ; and alas ! he pitched upon
the unfortunate notion that, by checking the impulse
which would have sent him to her side,
he could benefit her most enduringly and unselfishly.


But where else to go ? What to do ? 
get away from it all 1

Even the petty shafts of innocent jest and
laughter over their fulfilled prophecy which
would assail lira from his intimates, would be
galling; while the graver astonishment of slighter
acquaintance, their questions and comments,
would be insufferable.

Of course he could say that he had quarrelled
with Pollaxfen, and say no more ; but this one
phrase would inevitably have to be repeated
some fifty times a- day.

And it would be talked about, and allusions
would be made to it, and the whole might get
to Pollaxfen's ears, and set his tongue wagging
in a self-defence which might lead to anything.

No, he had better be out of the way for a time.

He looked around him. During the bygone
week he had somehow or other connected every
object of note within those four walls, with the
thought of Kate.

He had mentally checked off what he should
take with him when he left his bachelor-quarters,
and what he would get rid of. He had
wondered if she would fancy his favourite picture,
and how she would take to his dog.

Oh, he had not much doubted what the upshot
of this wedding journey would be !

The bare sight of all the familiar surroundings
to which he must now attach himself
afresh, was grating, sickening.

He could not do it. He could not go on in
the old way.

Something fresh must be found, some new
ground must be broken.

Before the following night he had entered
into arrangements for exchanging into a regiment
about to start on foreign service.

And Kate, all unsuspicious, was on that same
April evening quietly gathering ferns and leaves
in the Carnochan woods, and loading her baskets
with feathery moss which must be brought home
and thrown into water to soak for twelve hours,
before it would be deemed fit to deck the chambers
for the gala.

Neither of the little sisters, who were supposed
to be giving their aid, were half so blithe
or so efficient. Marjorie was tired out, and
Bertha as usual had her grievance. They would
have left the long sprays that were out of reach,
and found others ; or, at least, they would have

looked about for less inaccessible places to surmount
than Kate did. She minded no trouble,
found no wall too rickety, no ditch too deep.

Marjorie was not half so mud-bespattered and
draggle-tailed when the three came in, nor had
Marjorie a third of the bloom upon her cheek.

The weathercock had veered round again, you
see. She had got over her first ecstasy, and its
first reaction. Nothing she could now do or
say could avert the delicious danger, and it was
so near  so near. She hugged her secret to her
heart, conning over every probability, spelling
out, as it were, every syllable, of the scene to
come.

It was easy once more to enter into the minutiae
of pomp, which were so dear to the bride-elect,
and to skip with the little ones about the
house. It seemed quite natural to be useful
and necessary ; and for the demand, '* Where is
Kate ? " to be heard imperatively from one and
another.

To run ofi" to her room, to escape the hubbub
and traffic which were going on everywhere else,
was the last thing to be thought of. Why, there
was Mademoiselle calling for assistance in her
grand design for the bride's toilet-table ; and

there was Bertha with a message from the
gardener, with whom she had undertaken to
co-operate, respecting the floral arches and
flowers for the banquet; and there was the
schoolmistress waiting "just to know how Miss
Kate would like the children to stand around
the gateway, and at what precise moment they
should be marshalled ready to throw their
bouquets on the carriage-roof?"

Lady Olivia had taken care that nothing
should be left undone which would give eclat to
the proceedings. Mademoiselle had approved
of the trousseau, and Alice herself was contented,
and taking the full benefit of all.

Since it was so, Kate had no longer a right
to fret.

"She is quite a help," testified Lady Olivia,
in the end; "she really is. So wonderfully
altered  so improved ! My dear," she observed,
quite affectionately, on the wedding eve, "do
not over-fatigue yourself; you have been running
about for every one all day long. Go to bed,
Kate, and do not rise too early."

Ah 1 she had no cause to rise early  the day
was long and sad enough.

CHAPTER XXV.

'from hope's summit Hurled."

 From the first dawn of reason in the mind,
Man is foredoomed the thorns of grief to find ;
At every step has further cause to know
The draught of pleasure still is dashed with woe."

KiRKE White.

Having done so well with Alice, it was but
natural that Lady Olivia, who was now fully
reinstated in her own opinion as the model stepmother,
should turn her attention with increased
complacency to the superior charms of Kate.

Kate the prodigal was a very different person
from Kate the insurgent. The contour which
had been admired by Lady Olivia, even when
seldom seen exempt from passion or from moodiness,
could not now be thought too highly of.
Its expressiveness, its animation, were commented
upon, its varied play was noted only as an
increased attraction.

She had seldom now, she declared to herself,
to find fault of any kind with the girl who had
once been in perpetual disgrace.

Kate spoke to her properly, looked at her
properly, and would remain in the room with
her for an hour at a time.

This was quite a new thing indeed ; for it
had been one of the grievances in the early
wedded days that none of Mr Newbattle's
daughters would associate with his wife more
than they could help, and it was hardly pleasant
to be shunned even by those whom she might
herself have chosen to shun. The way that one
after another would shuffle out of the room on
various pretexts, directly their step-mother appeared,
 and the way that Kate would march
past, head in air, without any pretext at all,
had been more mortifying than any one
had ever known, especially since listeners had
always been as indispensable to Lady Olivia as
correspondents.

It was undeniable that she had been sinned
against. Whatever had been her own failings,
the children had not been guiltless. They had
drawn themselves together in opposition even
before she came amongst them, and had begun

to treat her with contumely from the very first
week after her arrival.

Alice, who had endeavoured to compass this
end by stealth, and Kate, who had withstood
her to her face, had of course been followed by
the younger ones,  even Marjorie deserting,
when it suited her, to the enemy's ranks ; and
when it is remembered that they were four to
one, and that they had the secret support of
every member  in and out of the house  of the
Carnochan establishment,  it will be felt that
some excuse must be made for their solitary
opponent, when in desperation she had resorted
to strong measures. Undoubtedly, a better
woman would have acted otherwise  would have
seen that the daughter, if separated from her
family, was suitably established elsewhere  and
would have let no opportunity pass of bringing
her to reason, and reinstating her as soon as it
was desirable in her home ; but being what she
was, excuses must be made for Lady Olivia.

Her fair bevy had plagued her life out.

But now  now that the past year was to be
blotted from remembrance  now that all things
had turned out so inconceivably well,  who could
say that events had not justified her policy 1

She had not shown wisdom nor humanity.
Ha ! But she had got Alice off her hands, and
had brought Kate to her bearings !

She chuckled to herself as she saw that her
eldest, if not her most formidable antagonist,
was now all amiability and deference, seeking
her opinion at every turn  convinced of having
been well guided, pleased with herself, and proud
of her position.

She laughed in her heart as she laid a hand
on Kate's shoulder and whispered a direction,
which met with the most earnest and immediate
attention. It was about Rupert's room ; and
she experienced a feeling of proud satisfaction
in the thought that she would soon be able to
point out her triumph to her son, who had gone
so far as to suggest  a thing he had never done
before  that she was not on the right tack with
the turbulent damsels : Rupert should see now.

She longed to have her little crow over him.

He would probably admire Kate, but she was
not afraid of this. A London man,  and a man
who had, moreover, the entree of many of the
best country seats in England,  could hardly be
susceptible to mere beauty, and have escaped
matrimony so long.

She looked to him to help her with this dark-eyed
belle. Kate should do better than Alice,
for whom PoUaxfen had been good enough.
With the prestige of her sister's early and excellent
establishment in life, her chances would
be doubled, moreover. This, added to her own
charms, to Lady Olivia's reputation, and to
Captain Evelyn's password, ought to bring her
into notice at once.

(" That is all," said the profound woman of the
world to herself  " that is all that can be said
for any untried daughter. She may succeed, or
she may not. She may make a hit at the outset,
or she may go pottering on among second-rate
houses the season through, and be nowhere at
the end of it ! If that should happen to be the
way with Kate, it would scarcely be of any use
to try her again. Country houses would be
better ; and indeed, were it not that she is
striking as well as handsome, I should be disposed
to let London alone, and go in at once
for the country. It would be a pity, however,
not just to see, first. Should we discover afterwards
that she might have made a mark in
Town, I should never forgive myself for having
failed to do her justice ; besides which, she

would have nothing to talk about, and might
be thought dull. With a little, even a very-little
knowledge of society, a clever girl is improved,
and a stupid one learns to pass muster.
Kate is certainly clever ; I was quite astonished
at her last night.) Kate, my dear," aloud,
'* what was that book that Mr Popham was
talking to you about after dinner '? But never
mind now; you must tell me another time, when
we have done with this wedding. There is no
time for reading, nor for anything else, at present.
Only don't forget''

*' I am afraid," said Kate, " that I have forgotten
already. But I know what it was about,
and will ask Mr Popham for the title the next
time I see him."

*' Who would believe it of you, to forget a
book that you and Mr Popham were so full
of?" cried Lady Olivia, jestingly.

"But I had not read it."

** He told me he was quite surprised at the
extent of your other reading, at any rate, and
desired to know if all the others were as well
informed. I wished I could have said they
were ; but I did my best ; I told him you were
all devoted to literature,  for Mr Popham thinks

so much of literary people, you know. And so
you have forgotten all about the book '? Really
you must be excused, however ; any one might
be excused amidst such a hubbub as we have
going on''

The lapse of memory pleased her in two ways.
It showed, she thought, that a fair amount of
amusement and festivity was all that was needed
to wake up her dreamy student to the realities
of life, and it showed that some one else could
forget besides herself.

She had " forgotten " the night before, what
the sprightly allusion made by her step-daughter,
which called forth the applause of the table,
meant. She had had to have it explained ; and
there had been a momentary mortification, in
spite of the sober reflections which afterwards
pointed out that nothing could be a greater
addition to a debutante's bright eyes than the
reputation of saying smart, clever, witty things.

Mr Popham had been bent on drawing out
his young friend, who had been permitted, ' just
for once," to dine there in room of Alice, whom
etiquette detained at home as her bridal day
approached; and Kate had been so gay and
brilliant, and had done so well on the occasion

altogether, that beholding her the cynosure of
all eyes, had justified in Lady Olivia's opinion
all her former predictions.

The success of this almost unknown daughter
had been unqualified. She had been made to
speak, and she had spoken as only Evelyn had
ever before heard her ; forgetful of self, full of
her subject, sympathetic with her audience, she
had caught up suggestions, flashed out repartees,
drawn all the gentlemen round her, and
reduced all the ladies  with the exception of
Mrs Popham, who could hold her own with
anybody, and who was charmed with the scene
to hopeless silence.

Lady Olivia had pardoned even this  had
accepted even such a position, after a brief
rumination over what it portended. Her brow
had cleared, her smiles had broken out again ; she
had realised the greatness of her luck in getting
Alice out of the way, and having her hands free
for a new campaign, as she had never done before.

Kate had enjoyed her party, as any one would
have done.

The pleasant looks and approving laughter
of the company had all been nice, and new to
her. They had reminded her  oddly enough,

of some one, of whom no reminding was
needed.

It was strange, but it was true.

No one present had been the least like Evelyn ;
neither in appearance nor manner could any
have competed with the gay Guardsman; but
nevertheless, throughout the evening she had
experienced a thrill of the same emotion  a
poor, weak thrill, but still of the same nature 
that his presence had been wont to excite. The
fact was, that all homage was novel to one who
had never until within the past six months experienced
what such a thing was ; and that any
admiration, which was sufficiently respectful
and refined, could not be unwelcome. She was
no Stoic. She would fain have been made much
of, fondled and beloved,  but there had in bygone
years been no one, with the exception of
the Uncle George before named, to whom she
could turn for a caress. He had died, and the
blank had been filled,  oh, more than filled by
Evelyn. Evelyn had looked at her as none had
ever looked, and spoken as none had spoken, 
and as a consequence, every word or glance
which aroused a pleasurable emotion in her
bosom, instantly brought up his image.
vol. II. u

That image was never far to seek ; and now,
now when he was so soon to be himself before
her, could she fail to be all tingling with the
thought ?

. . The marriage-day came and went.

Bells rang, flags flew, healths were drunk,
and the newly-married pair were sent forth
amidst rejoicing and uproar, benedictions, and
every imaginable din,  and, as night drew on,
a lonely girl crept to her couch, and watered it
with her tears.

 .  

Pollaxfen blustered freely. He had never, he

said, been played such a d d scurvy trick in

his life ! That came of depending upon the
caprices of those confounded aristocrats, who
could behave decently to nobody but one of
their own set, and who treated a plain man
as if he were the dirt of the earth !

He had asked this Captain Evelyn to be his
best man on Lady Olivia's account, who, poor
woman, had always been civil to him, and whom
he thought it would please to have her son complimented.
It was not for his own sake that
he had been hunting out a swell,  no, dash it,
that it wasn't I What did he care for a swell ?

FROM HOPES SUMMIT Hurled. 293

AVhat did he want with Captain Evelyn, or any

of his d d lot ? Wasn't it enough that he

had been obliged to give his old friend Shingles
the cold shoulder, all to keep in with the New-battle
faction, who were bent on having one of
themselves for the post of honour,  but that he
must be compelled to fall back on the mercy of
dear old Shangles at the last moment ?

Evelyn, he swore, had jumped at the invitation,
had put off a host of engagements, and
had been as proud as Punch of being asked ;
and then all at once something better had turned
up, or he had taken a huff,  nobody knew what
it was,  but he had thrown the bridegroom over
with as little ceremony as if he had been an old
shoe !

Dash it ! he wished he had never gone near
the cursed, insolent puppy !

He would take precious good care another
time before he got himself into such a mess !

If ever he were caught speaking to Evelyn in
his life after this, he wished he might be, &c.
&c. &c.

This was principally for the benefit of Shangles
and Grubber, who were ready enough to
listen, having been pleased at half a day's notice

to fill the post rendered vacant by the defection
of the greater man.

To both of them telegrams had been sent on
the morning after the scene between him and
Pollaxfen, since the dread of the latter had been
overwhelming lest he should have to travel
northwards by himself, and to spend many
hours, both on his journey and afterwards at
the little inn at Kirkcudbright, without the
company of any one to whom he could confide
the history of his ill-usage.

A " best man ' would, of course, have been
forthcoming, as soon as his want was known at
Carnochan,  among some of the guests gathered
there, one would speedily have been relegated
to the position ; but it was not so much to hear
another step than his own march up the long
drawing-room in which the ceremony was to
take place, nor to divide with another the attention
of the assembled company, that was required
by the forlorn knight, as some one before whom
he could safely rail at the author of his disappointment.


That privilege would have been debarred him
by the presence of a delegate from Carnochan ;
but with Shangles and Grubber he was all

right. Since both had responded to his appeal,
it became necessary to select one, and
the lot fell on Shangles  Grubber being thus
reduced to the back seat of the carriage, and
to following in at the hall-door as best he
might.

Presented to nobody, and known to nobody,
the wretched supernumerary was thereafter entirely
overlooked, and would certainly have had
to go in to the breakfast that followed by himself,
had it not been for the French governess.

Mademoiselle Pierrepoint saw the dilemma,
and with the true spirit of her race, rose superior
to circumstances, and lifted the embarrassed
and dum foundered Grubber with her.

She sent in before her the two little Popham
girls, whom it had been proposed that she should
take under her wing, and approached the window
recess to which Pollaxfen's friend had retreated.
*' We are both strangers," she said, with the
prettiest little bow and smile in the world.
Where so many friends meet, strangers cannot
expect to be remembered. Shall I ask for
your arm 1 "

Grubber *' twigged" her, in his own phraseology,
immediately. He saw it was the governess

; and had lie been another Pollaxfen, there
is no saying how he might have taken such an
overture,  but happily for himself, as well as
for the lady, he was not ill-natured.

He thought the idea excellent, tucked Mademoiselle
forthwith under his arm, and conducted
her to the dining-room with as good a grace,
and with considerably more pleasure, than if she
had been a duchess.

He felt quite at his ease; and that he had
not done since his eye fell on Shangles in 's
room at Long's hotel, and he had
been then and there unceremoniously informed
that Shangles was to be preferred before
him.

He had seen at once that there was thus no
niche for him to fill ; and though he had made
no objection to going down even as a hanger-on
and outsider, he had shrewdly suspected that
Pollaxfen would treat him precisely as Pollaxfen
had done.

No one had cared to ask who he was; and
during all the commotion consequent on the
conclusion of the marriage-service, he had remained
passive. That did not matter  he could
stand that. He had no ambition, no desire to

be put forward ; let him but be as other people
were, and that was all he wanted. Since he saw
plenty of others standing neutral, he was well
enough content to do the same.

But then the move began ; and from the deep
window-recess he had furtively watched couple
after couple file past while thinner and thinner
grew the crowd,  yet nobody came near him.

He had counted the numbers left, while the
dew mounted to his forehead. Suppose they
were odd ?

He did not know how to count the little girls.
Was he to have a child to take in ? It would
be only one degree better than having to stalk
along by himself, an uninvited, undiscovered
unit.

Barely, however, had the horrible alternative
presented itself, ere he saw the little pair trot
off, and found himself confronted by Mademoiselle.


Governess or not, she was somebody; she had
saved him from the pit which had a moment
before seemed to gape beneath his feet. With
her, he looked like the rest of the company ; he,
too, had a mate. What if her English was
broken  who was to know that ? And as for

her dress, she was a long way better tossed ofiF
than the majority of the ladies present.

'* Go it. Mademoiselle ! " he exclaimed, inwardly.
" You and I will make a right-down
good meal together, anyway''

** Now then, you choose  you choose," he
would exhort from time to time. '' Here is the
menu,  this fine flowery thing with all the
break-jaw words in it, you know. What is
to be ? You say, and I'll get whatever it is.
What about that bird with its great long
feathers all over the table? What do you
say to it ? Fine feathers make fine birds, you
know; let's go in for the bird, you and I."

Or, " Here are peaches done up in wet cotton-wool
? Oh, it's called a blank-mange  whatever
that maybe. The hang-mange seems to have been
in a mill down-stairs, and got the worst of it."

Or, I wonder when we are to get some
cake ? The bride has got to cut the cake, you
know; I wish she would remember that we have
had it staring us in the face for the last hour
and a half, and that human nature can't stand
much more. The smell of it is good enough ;
but I think we'll all agree that smell without
taste isn't everything."

With such pleasantries his companion was
entertained ; but although no more of Mademoiselle's
partner and ally is here worth recording,
we shall find him coming to the front again
by-and-by, for he and his neighbour made such
friends over their long-tailed bird, and their
hang-mange, that on meeting each other again
five years afterwards, and finding that she was
then in want of another situation, he procured
for her one which met every requirement.

Her pupil was a cousin of his own, wealthy,
orphaned, and requiring tuition on divers
points unconnected with literature. Mademoiselle
Pierrepoint could be of assistance
socially as well as intellectually ; and so well
did Mademoiselle suit the young lady's taste,
and that of her guardians, that no gratitude
was too much for the relation who had procured
for them such a treasure.

Now Grubber was poor, and lazy and very
vulgar ; by no merits of his own could he have
pushed his way in the world ; but this one kind
action, this remembering and interesting himself
in the acquaintance of an hour, since she
had come to his rescue at a pinch, proved,
as will presently be told, to be the making

of his fortune. Let no one undervalue good-nature.


To return, however, to Carnochan, effete.

However much chagrined inwardly by the
defalcation of her son, Lady Olivia was sufficiently
mistress of herself to hear the tidings
with outward composure, and to check, by the
power of her eye alone, the torrent of angry
abuse which Pollaxfen would have given the
world to have dared to pour forth.

She suspected that Eupert had thrown up his
engagement in disgust, and she was hardly surprised,
and not at all indignant, that he had
done so. Closer approach to the man, whose
associate he was to appear, had shown him
Pollaxfen in his true colours ; and recollecting
the boots, the nails, and the yawns. Lady
Olivia shuddered to reflect on what those
colours must have appeared.

She ought never to have let the bridegroom
be seen; she should have prevented his going
to London at the outset ; and she bitterly took
herself now to task for not having been able
to hold out a little longer, and to keep him
to herself, and to those who had already
been undeceived, rather than be quit of his

odious presence at the expense of enlightening
Evelyn.

*' I told you how it would probably be' she
now undauntedly averred. " My son is not to
be depended upon. He has his own friends,
and his own engagements. That he agreed to
your request at first showed his willingness to
oblige, but you must recollect my warning you
not to reckon on his being able to carry all his
intentions into performance. He seldom does."

No warning of the kind had ever been given,
but since there was no question but what she
had said a good many things on which no
heed had been bestowed, the unlucky Pollard
could not now, he felt, " tick her off."

''If he had told me slap out " he began.

But this would never do. He must not look
like that, nor speak like that. People would
notice. "I understand," said Lady Olivia, in
in her blandest tones. '' I can quite understand,
believe me, my dear Harold. It has
been an inconvenience,  but we will not now
regard it. You have done so well, retrieved
your position so excellently. Mr Shangles has
been an admirable substitute, I am sure ; and
he has only had to take charge of our school-girl

Kate, for whom it does not in the least matter," 
she could not resist the taunt ; " and your
other friend is quite happy with Mademoiselle."

He was not allowed even to look annoyed.
He had to sit up by Alice's side, and make his
speech, and bow and smirk, as though everything
were going exactly as he would have it ;
and conscious that he was smarting under the
destruction of his most cherished hopes, that he
had failed in every essential point of his so-called
success, he had yet to enact the joyous bridegroom,
drink healths, swallow banter, and carry
off his blooming fair one, as though not a ripple
stirred to break the harmony of the hour.

Not a single word could he edge in of what
he had resolved to say.

*' It was Eupert all over," pronounced Lady
Olivia afterwards. ' He never meant to come
from the beginning; he must only have said
*Yes' because he did not know what other
answer to make. He is really too soft-hearted.
I have no doubt that Harold was absurdly tiresome
and pressing  as he always is  and would
not let my poor boy alone. Eupert cannot bear
to be run after. Certainly, it would have been
better for him to have put down the suggestion

at once, to have let us all understand what we
were about,  for we were quite taken in as it
was. But, upon my word, I cannot blame him,
although I  I who know my son so well,  I
was as much deceived as any ! Well, it does
not signify now ; and I think I can answer for
it, Kate, that when you and I go to Town
presently, we shall not be treated by this negligent
young man as poor Harold Pollaxfen has
been ! "

But the smile of confidence died away from
the parent's lips as she opened the envelope in
her hand.

She had not noticed, as she was speaking, that
it was directed in the handwriting of her son,
and the intelligence it contained was enough to
make her grave on the instant.

Evelyn was about to join the troops which
were on the eve of departure for the East ; and
as he had only twenty-four hours wherein to get
ready, he stated succinctly that he should not
be able to take leave of any one.

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

l-l

Universe OF Illinois-URBANA

3 0112 056523209

.~"fe-c- cr ' #

S

;S

C c fcc

c c OCX

mem

'<M"nei

'i'mi

Wl%

81

mm;:

IMF

1

5\>;

z>>-:>

SfeSP:

OF THE

UN IVLR5ITY

or 

83

NA/I4t
V.3

TEOUBLESOME DAUGHTERS

L. B. Walked

AUTHOR or 'MR SMITH: A PART OF HIS LIFE,' 'PAULINE,
'COUdlNS,' ETC.

Truth severe,
By fairy Fiction dressed."

IN THREE VOLUME!

VOL. in.

WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS

EDINBURGH AND LONDON

MDCCCLXXX

CONTENTS OF THE Tried VOLUME.

Part VII.

CHAP. PAGE

XXVI. LADY OLIVIA IS RESOLVED THAT KATE SHALL

BE SEEN AND ADMIRED AT LAST, . . 3

XXVII. TREADING ON THIN ICE, 23

XXVIII. A SURPRISE, 45

XXIX. A BAD Half-hour, 72

PART VIII.

XXX. MARJORIE PROCLAIMS HER OPINIONS AND

APPLAUDS HER HONESTY, . . . 95

XXXI. "OVER-IMPULSIVE, MISS KATE," . . 128

xxxii. pol lax fen's answer, , . . .148

XXXIII. THE END OF THE SEASON, , . .176

XXXIV. AN INTERVIEW IN WHICH NO ONE BEATS

ABOUT THE BUSH, . . . .201

PART IX.

XXXV. "NOT IN VAIN WERE HER SAD HOURS," . 231

XXXVI. THE TURN OF THE TIDE, 258

XXXVII. CONCLUSION, 286

CHAPTER XXVI.

LADY OLIVIA IS Resolved THAT KATE SHALL
BE SEEN AND ADMIRED AT LAST.

Tell her that's young.
And shuns to have her graces spied,

Had a rose sprung
In deserts where no men abide,

It must have, recommended, died.
Small is the worth

Of beauty from the light retired, 
Bid her come forth.

Suffer herself to be desired,
And not blush so to be admired."

Waller.

It was on the brightest of bright May days,
exactly five years after the events recorded in
the last chapter, that there drove up to the door
of a house in a well-placed London street, a

train of railway cabs, piled up and brimming
over with all the paraphernalia of a family
arriving from the country.

The first person of note to descend and be
received by officious attendants, was an elderly
lady, somewhat wan and disordered by travel,
whose weary air contrasted with the sprightly
chatter and springing steps of the two younger
ones who followed, and who, as they looked
around them, noting this and that, with smiles
on their rosy, pretty faces, showed that they
were neither too tired nor too dusty for present
cheerfulness.

It is Lady Olivia Newbattle, with the two
daughters who now alone remain under her
maternal wing, upon whom our curtain thus
again draws up.

They are not the two youngest, as most people
would suppose,  there are nearly six years between
them, though there does not look one.

' Indeed, many people would imagine that
Marjorie is the older of the two," averred her
step-mother ; " and that is the reason why I
mean to bring her out at once. She is at her
very best now ; in another few years, it is quite
possible that she may grow coarse. You, my

dear Kate," for Kate was the auditor on this
occasion,  *' you will never look coarse ; your
beauty is quite of another order. But being as
it is, we will not put off. Think how unlucky
we were about you ! First, your health putting
a stop to my taking you out after poor
dear Alice's marriage ; the next year, our losing
her was the cause ; again, I was unwell myself
it was really most unfortunate ; and then our
deep mourning, necessitating two years' strict
seclusion. You yourself advocated that, my
love, and very right you were. But you see
how it all was,  how it was really impossible
for me to carry out my intentions ; and I should
regret it far more than I do had your bloom
faded, or had our circumstances been altered.
As it is, however, seeing you as I do, not only
with unimpaired, but really improved looks,
strong, well, and most excellently provided for
thanks to your dear father," lifting her handkerchief,
 " indeed, by your poor sister's death,
holding a position that you had not before,  I
feel, I really do feel, my dear Kate, that whatever
may have been our sorrows and vexations,
all is now for the best. You feel the same, I
am sure ; it is quite a reward for your not fretting

and making an outcry, as most girls would
have done in your place. Now is your day as
much as Marjorie's. Now everything is convenient,
our affairs are in good order, we ourselves
hale and hearty ; and now, therefore, I
intend to have the pleasure of introducing to
the world both my lovely daughters at once."

Times were indeed changed since she stigmatised
them as her unruly crew.

They were now her dearest children, her kind
Kate, and her sweetest Marjorie ; and since she
had only the two to look after, she eras once
again ready to trumpet herself as on the brink
of that perfect felicity which was for ever, poor
soul, within view, yet for ever eluding her grasp.

Let us, however, take a brief survey of what
had happened during the past five years to bring
about the situation.

Two deaths and one marriage had reduced the
family circle to its present number.

Alice had been taken first. After a brief and
childless wedded life, she had caught a fever
whilst travelling abroad with her husband ; and
tidings of her end had been sent to her early
home, ere any there knew of her illness.

It cannot be said that the shock was such as

to kill her father, for Mr Newbattle lived for
fully two years after; but many people, more
especially among those who knew most of the
old laird, affirmed that it had had a great effect
upon him.

Year by year he had become increasingly dull
and heavy.

He had sat in his arm-chair nodding behind
his newspaper from morning till night, finding
every occasion for signing a cheque a burden,
and every sight of his lawyer, or steward, a
nuisance.

No one had known much about him, or what
he did, or how he passed his days. He had not
cared for anybody to be with him,  nor to be
read to, nor waited upon. He had liked, as of
old, to be let alone. At mealtimes only he
had appeared ; and it was during these that
suddenly, in the midst of the buzz and talk, he
had on more than one occasion looked round
with a vacant eye, demanding vaguely, " Where
is Alice?"

If visitors were in the house, the sight of their
faces would at first constrain him to exert a
little of his precise, pleasant, old-fashioned politeness
; but as soon as he had become accustomed

to their presence, he would relapse into
forgetfulness. He had dreaded to be roused,
and had whimpered if begged to go anywhere,
or do anything.

It could not but be a strange and subtle relief
when all this was over, and when, without
pain or knowledge, the father, who had never
been more than a father in name, was called
from their midst.

The will, to which a codicil had been added
at the time of his second marriage, was duly
found, and gave no dissatisfaction, since it had
been drawn up and composed by one of his
most trustworthy friends and most efficient
helpers, Mr Walter Maxwell.

Contrary to all established precedent, Maxwell,
with everything in his power, had merely
resolved to do his best for the girls, and to keep
the old acres together ; to which end they were
now found to be left to the eldest and other
daughters in tail, under trustees, the younger
ones being properly portioned, and a suitable
jointure being provided for Lady Olivia.

If the widow did not absolutely raise a note
of thanksgiving that her eldest step-daughter
was now no more, it was as much as she could

do to prevent herself from doing so. She had
grown to detest PoUaxfen, and Alice had been
latterly a mere echo of her husband. To have
been ousted by them, to have had to quit the
old walls seven feet thick  the long shady
avenues, the lake, and the swans  would have
been a trial under any circumstances,  since,
however much she had liked to break out into
little scampers hither and thither at times, she
had dearly loved to have Carnochan to fall back
upon ; but to have known it as the residence of
Mr and Mrs Pollaxfen, with the stinging recollection
that through her means they had come
together, would have been more than flesh and
blood could well have endured.

Somehow, stupid and snoozy though he was,
she had always meant her husband to live.

She had never, even when Pollaxfen was putting
his very plain questions about the farms
and the fishery rights, felt that any day might
see him master in the place whereon he stood.

Eventually, of course, it was to come to that ;
but the day seemed a long way off. The squire
was not an old man ; he had never had worries
nor cares but those raised by his own imagination
; he had undergone no strain on his mental

organs; his money had been plentiful; his
estate had prospered ; his children had grownup
around him ; and although he had lost his
first wife, he had apparently agreed with the
sentiment expressed in the ancient ditty 

Gin one wife dies, I can sure get another,"

and had carried out the idea manfully.

It was perhaps the very absence of anything
to rouse or stimulate that had fostered Mr New-battle's
malady.

Ease was his chief complaint, and to judge right.
He died for heaviness that his load was light."

He had never been so well in his life as when
he was being beset by his daughters in such a
fashion as to drive him away from his home,
and exert himself to escape still more permanently
from their clutches. He had been quite
brisk for the time, as we know. On his account
it was only a pity that the subsequent turmoil
at Carnochan had not lasted longer ; for no
sooner was the house cleared of the arch-rebel,
and the rest reduced to subjection, than torpor
once more crept through his veins, and all the
late benefit received, was undone. A few more
years of that repose clinched the mischief.

He was unfit for the slightest jar, the veriest
pebble on the smooth path of his daily life.

Alice's death settled the question in reality,
though he had lingered on a while after it ; and
he was a dead man at a time when he ought
by rights to have only been seeing in the distance
a green old age.

No one could say Lady Olivia was inconsolable
; or, on the other hand, that she showed
any want of proper feeling.

She did not for a considerable time permit
the " All is for the best " that was in her heart
to rise to her lips, but she would not have been
human had she not felt this,  that since both
Alice and her father were to be taken, it was a
merciful dispensation which removed the daughter
first.

Pollaxfen need never now have anything todo
with Carnochan, nor need its inmates have
anything more to do with him.

The estates had devolved on Kate, under
trust, as we said ; and this suited Lady Olivia
very well.

Dear Kate was now so attentive, so kind !

She had her own little ways of course, but
what of that ? She was still rather unsociable.

rather given to running away from everybody,
but then she made such excellent, inestimable
use of her solitude. She was still imprudent
about her health  would go out on cold and
damp days,  but what then ? Young girls
could not be expected to coddle and fuss like
grandmothers.

In short, with only the two of whom she was
really proud and fond in her way,  for Bertha's
marriage, of which we shall presently speak,
had followed shortly after her father's death, 
Lady Olivia had an excellent time of it.

All Kate's generous nature was enlisted on
her step-mother's behalf with the feeling that she
was now powerless for weal or woe,  that she
had no hold on any of them unless they chose
to cede it,  and that she was, strictly speaking,
her own guest in the very halls from which
she had erewhile expelled her.

The tongue that had once been so hasty, was
slow now to utter an ill-advised word. Lady
Olivia was even consulted and referred to, on
matters whereon it was possible that her opinion
could be valuable. Due attention was paid to
such friends as she chose to ask to the house, 
carriages and horses were at her disposal, as of

yore,  her new garden was finished and arranged
according to the plan she had laid down,  and
it may be doubted whether the extra respect
and deference paid to her wishes by this once
unmanageable daughter, was not the only difference
really experienced by the widow after the
loss of her husband.

Bertha's marriage, which took place within a
year of her father's demise, was a very sober, jog-trot
affair.

Unable to take any position at home, and no
particular favourite with any one there, she was
glad to close with the first offer made her ; and
luckily, it was one that no one was disposed to
cavil at. Mr Walter Maxwell, junior, only son
of their kind old friend,  who was connected
with the west-country Maxwell, though no
one knew how,  was quite good enough for
Bertha, whom Lady Olivia secretly acknowledged
she had never expected to be so comfortably
quit of.

The young man was sensible, respectable, unobtrusive,
and felt all the honour of being thus
permitted to enter the Newbattle family.

They could not find any fault with him, nor
with the connection. It was not brilliant, but

then Bertha was not brilliant. There had never
been a breath of the word "season'' as connected
with Bertha ; it had been instinctively felt
that she would never have " done anything " in
London ; and no one, not even she herself, felt
it hard that she should be married straight off
from the old country-house before her knowledge
of mankind had extended beyond the
young Pophams, Neddy Maclure, and her husband.


A quiet and peaceful year was now passed by
the three left behind, at the end of which time,
as we have seen. Lady Olivia doffed her widow's
cap, and delightedly surveyed her " two lovely
daughters'' She had always petted Marjorie,
she had learned to be proud of Kate ; with her
son still absent,  with nothing else to fasten
such affections as she possessed, upon,  with
finding herself considerately treated, and permitted
to have a say where she had no longer a
claim to rule,  she had grown to be very fond
of them indeed ; and it was a proof of this, that
although no one knew better than she herself
how uncertain was her tenure in her present
comfortable quarters, more especially if she persisted
in opening fresh doors through which

matrimony might find his way, she was yet resolved
that Kate should be seen and admired
at last.

Kate might sigh, but she must submit. She
had never forgotten, never would forget, the past,
but she had learned to hear Evelyn's name
without the wild beating of her heart which it
had once occasioned ; she could listen to his
letters, remind his mother of little events and
incidents to be narrated to him, and look forward
 or so she told herself  to the meeting
which was ever drawing nearer, with a pleasure
that should have in it no element of regret.

When he did return, he should have no embarrassments
to fear from her.

Perhaps the young brow, whose exquisite
moulding made Lady Olivia whisper about busts
and statues, and having a "head" done for
Carnochan as soon as she could satisfy herself as
to the rival merits of the two leading sculptors
of the day,  perhaps it was a shade more pensive
than it might have been, had the course
of her love run smooth and been crowned by
wedded happiness ; but it was far more serene,
more smooth and open, than it had been in the
old hasty days. She had not wept and suffered

in vain. She would not scout the peaceful
tenor of her present life, the even sunshine by
which she was now surrounded, albeit the very
memory of the past hurricanes of love, and
grief, and bitterness, were dearer to her heart.
She would accept with grateful submission the
lot assigned by an all-merciful Hand, even while
dropping in secret a tender tear to that which
might have been. And only at times  and
these were few and far between  would she
turn from her startled self with a flush of shame
and surprise, as some sudden thrill shot through
her veins, caused by the mere mention of a name,
or when a nerve awoke and quivered under
unconscious hands, lightly fingering bygone
scenes.

Such revelations were disappointing. So long
a time having elapsed, she ought to have been
calmer, more reasonable. And, moreover, if such
nothings had the power to arouse and disturb,
what should she do when called upon to face
reality ?

Reality in the person of Evelyn  that Evelyn
who had forsaken and forgotten, but whose
image, untouched by time and unharmed by
the neglect and fickleness with which she could

not but charge him, was still enshrined within
her bosom,  that very Evelyn she was now
again, as it appeared, on the verge of meeting.

' For I have quite made up my mind," said
Lady Olivia, with clear decision in every tone,
' that it is my duty, on account of both the dear
girls, to spend a season in Town, and be thereto
meet my son when he arrives in July."

Mrs Popham was the confidante on this occasion,
and Mrs Popham 's brow cleared when
she understood that no opposition had been
offered by either of the " dear girls." She had
not been altogether without a dread lest her
child of the Newbattle family might have meditated
a withdrawal from the scene,  since
Kate's disinclination for ball-rooms was an old
story.

"But she ought to go," said Mrs Popham,
discussion the matter with her daughter, who
was now no longer Susie Popham, but a blithe
young matron transplanted to other spheres, 
Kate ought to go," attested Kate's stanch
old friend. " It is not right that she should
shrink from society in the way she does. Every
young woman in her rank of life ought to pass
through a certain amount of experience of the

VOL. III. B

world ; and that cannot be had anywhere better
than in London. But I know poor dear Kate
will shirk if she can,  and indeed I am in terror
each day that I shall hear it is only that giddy-parted
Marjorie who is to be taken ; but if there
is a whisper of the kind, I shall let Lady Olivia
know what / think."

Lady Olivia, however, was spared the knowledge,
since she had not the slightest intentions
of leaving any one behind, and since Kate,
whether she desired to "shirk'' or not, dared
not raise her voice, far less her eyes, as soon as
it was given out that the visit was to be no
more on her own and Marjorie's account, than
that the parent might be on the spot to embrace
her son as soon as he should again touch English
shores. That silenced her.

Mrs Popham misinterpreted the troubled countenance.


Cheer up, my dear silly child ! " cried she ;
'* why, even I, old body that I am, could find it
in my heart to be pleased with such a prospect !
You need not fag yourself out with gaieties; they
are not in your line, and very well for you they
are not ;  but London is full of charms of other
sorts, my little novice," tapping her on the cheek

playfully. " The best of everything goes to London,
Kate,  music, and paintings, and books,
and flowers "

"Flowers 1 " said Kate, opening her eyes.

Flowers, and trees, and sunshine, love. Yes,
yes ; you think you are leaving all the beauties
of nature behind you, and going to immure
yourself in a dusty smoky town, surrounded by
brick walls "

No indeed, Mrs Popham, I did not

think that."

At any rate, you will be surprised at a good
many things you see ; you will have had your
little countrified ideas blown away like thistledown,
ere I meet you again. I long to hear
your experience. Lady Olivia will do the thing
thoroughly, I have no doubt ; and you and Marjorie
will be taken here, there, and everywhere.
I am not afraid for you ; I know my little Kate
of old  she is above being dazzled by such vanities,
 but Marjorie " her tone became grave.

"Yes, Marjorie?" said Kate, and held her
breath. For Marjorie,  that great, bright, ruddy-haired,
many-tinted creature, who had been the
darling of the household when a little one,  was
still, in her sister's eyes, beautiful and irresistible,

only . Marjorie had so early in life begun

to practise steps and attitudes, and study her
person from head to foot in the long pier-glasses
at Carnochan; Marjorie had for a long time
past taken such a heartfelt interest in having
all the details and accoutrements of her toilet
in perfect order, in bustling out her little petticoats
and pulling up her little frills, when it was
a case of children's parties and picnics ; Marjorie
was invariably so much disturbed when the sun
tanned her face.

Head old fusty, musty books ? Not she.
Play and sing, take out her paint-box and try
to catch the gleam of the fleeting clouds as they
passed over the lake, or the fine shadow cast by
the larches ? To do this bored her. Teach in
the Sunday-school, visit the poor, comfort the
sick ? Not for millions of worlds.

In short, the girl was idle, vain, and frivolous ;
and all that Mrs Popham could find to say, when
she paused after introducing her name into the
conversation above recorded, was that no good
would come of keeping back one who was already
panting for the fray, and whom opposition
would inevitably only render the more set
upon it.

Let her go," she decided, promptly" let
her go, say I. She will then have it in her
power to choose which world she will havethis,
or the next. She will be no worse in the midst
of it all, than she would be hankering after it
down here. Already she speaks of nothing else ;
who can tell that whereas the idea is all in all
to her at present, the reality may not prove a
disenchantment ? See, Kate, my child, it is not
the world, but the love of it, which ' worketh
destruction ; ' it is not being here or there, in one
place or another, which prevents our bearing
about always with us the Christian's hope ; 
'the kingdom of God is within you' ''

So granny always said," cried Kate,

suddenly,  "so my dear, dear granny always
said."

Can you remember your grandmother \ "
replied Mrs Popham, surprised ; " I should have
thought that was hardly possible, considering
that she died when you were all so young."

The kind nurse, who took care of me
through my illness five years ago," faltered
Kate, colouring, as she always did when that
illness was in any way referred to. *' You remember
how ill I was at the farmhouse in the

West, that time I was staying there 1 The
farmer's wife was my 'granny'"

'rand you liked her?"

Liked her ! "  again that light in the eye 
I loved her with my whole heart," said Kate.
You don't know what she was to me ; and
when you speak in that way, dear Mrs Popham,
I fancy I hear her voice again. You don't
mind my saying it''

"Indeed I do not need to mind. 'One
family, we dwell in Him ; ' and we should have
our family likeness, Kate. My poor child, I
fancy this good woman was your best friend at
that time ? "

"Yes, yes."

"And I know you needed one."

"Yes," very low.

God bless you, dear ! Go where you will
now, you will find flatterers and admirers in
plenty, but not such friends as those, believe
me, Kate. Be true to them, and," emphatically,
"true to your own heart, my little one,
whatever happens; and, above all, be thankful
that you have early been led to choose ' that
good part which shall not be taken away from
you'"

CHAPTEK Xxvi.

TREADING ON THIN ICE.

The rage for competition, show, and style,
Is London's plague  and spreads for many a mile.
No rank nor age escapes that vulgar sin,
Breathed in its nurseries,  in its schools worked in."

Essays in Rhyme.

So up they all came, bag and baggage, menservants
and maid-servants, and were established
in a small house, well placed, handy forgoing
everywhere, and remarkable for nothing
else.

The drawing-rooms were tolerable, filling the
whole of one storey ; but the girls' bed-chambers
would hardly have been approved of by their
waiting women at Carnochan ; while even Lady
Olivia had to mount two flights of stairs before
she could take possession of the gloomy and
badly-lighted apartment wherein she was to
install herself.

How will she like this ? " whispered the ignorant
young ones, aside. A whole suite of rooms
had been allotted to their step-mother's use at Car-nolan,
and she had not found them too many.

But their consternation only received the
good-humoured ridicule of the town-bred lady,
whose father had been short of money, and who
had made the convenient discovery that London
alone suited his health, and that since he could
not really live amidst the unwholesome marshes
of his own estates, he had no need to keep up
two establishments.

To be sure," she said now, " this is a dull
and inconvenient room compared with my luxurious
quarters at dear Carnochan ; but it is
London, my dears, London,  that makes a
whole world of difference to those who know.
I was not better off as a girl ; and even at
Mr Evelyn's mansion in Hill Street, our upstairs
apartments were nothing to boast of.
My dear creatures, one-half of the best people
you meet here, come out of just such houses
as this I All the space is given up to the
public rooms. And think of the situation !
I daresay you fancy now that we should have
done better away in South Kensington or some

of those parts, where, it is true, we might have
had a domain double the size for less than half
the rent ; but wait a week or two, and you
will change your note. Wait, and you will
thank me. Wait till you begin to want to
drive back and forward, night after night and
day after day, to all the houses in this district
it is here I mean you to visit, not three miles
off, remember; and wait till the people begin
to call,  see if they would care to travel out
to regions unknown ; and wait till you want
to pop in and out of Bond Street of a morning.
Why, if I had taken you where I said, you
might have been found at that absurd man
Whiteley's,  I shudder to think of it ; but
you would have known no better. Think of
it all ! Now, here we are, in as nice a little
place as could possibly be, and with everything
and everybody just round the corner."

If you are satisfied," said Kate, " I am sure
Marjorie and I shall be. I did not like your
having to climb so high, that was all."

You kind creature ! But really, I shall not
think of minding that. I shall be near Marjorie,
and she can make use of the cupboard outside
the door here."

It is too bad of Kate to make me have this
good room," said Marjorie, with a decent pretence
of earnestness. * I don't know what to
say, mamma. Ought not she to have it, and
I to be poked away into the garret? You
say''

'well, my dear " Lady Olivia looked

at the two.

'just hold your little tongue," said Kate to
her sister. " I suppose I have a right to choose,
haven't I ? Well, and I have chosen."

"You dear, good thing! But I could get on
quite as well there."

Could you, indeed ? I should like to know
how poor Coleman could, at any rate. What
would she say to having to go through all
that marvellous performance of your hairdressing
through a skylight - window ? And
you are sure to have ten gowns for one that
I have : where could they all go, unless in
this cupboard 1 "

"They could still be kept here," faintly.

"And have Coleman trotting up and down
those stairs in never-ending journeys ? Nonsense
! Take this room, and it settles everything
for everybody."

'* Certainly it does, my dear Kate ; and Marjorie
is very much indebted to you."

Which Marjorie usually was, since she and
her 'mamma'' had learned the marvellously
successful trick of claim in or nothing and bo

o

training everything,  of having whatever was
good, pleasant, or desirable, forced upon them
against their will. They had to give way to
Kate, you know  since Kate always had been
self-willed and domineering; and, "Don't you
remember," Lady Olivia would add, '* what a
temper she had once ? Depend upon it, it is
still there, if she were to be crossed. Recollect
this, my dear Marjorie, and you will find
that it is always best to let your sister settle
think's herself."

The next thing was to sit down and make
out a list of all the eligible acquaintances and
old family connections on whom she could
venture to leave cards, in the hope that they
would be ready to take her by the hand, and bid
her once more welcome to her former haunts.

No one knew better than she the thin ice on
which she was about to tread.

She must expect, primarily, cool inspection
and empty professions.

Thereafter, it would either be neglect or
ardour, neck or nothing, for the rest of her
stay in Town.

If her wares were approved of  if her judgment
of them were endorsed by the higher
powers  if they were found to have the beauty,
the air, and the germ of success in them, that
she believed they had,  she would have no
further difficulty. She would then lead such
a life as she had only known in dreams, and
for the sake of which she had sometimes been
almost ready to wish, as she beheld her son
in his prime, that he had been a daughter.

To lead her child from one house where she
had been the centre of all eyes, to another where
her appearance would create an equal sensation,
had long seemed to her the proudest position
that a parent could hold ; and the idea that
possibly her contrasted pair  her imperial
Kate, and Hebe - like Marjorie  might conjointly
mount the throne of beauty, and become
the stars of the day, made her tremble with
nervous anxiety and excitement, as the moment
of competition drew near.

Could Kate have known what was passing
in Lady Olivia's breast !

Mum as a mouse was that cunning woman
on such subjects to her eldest daughter ; not
even to Marjorie could be safely confided the
ruminations which made her smile to herself
as she gloated over them in silence,  lest Marjorie
might whisper again. And then  then,
had the truth come out,  had even one-half of
the busy fancies that were always working
within come to light, how should she ever
have faced the scorn of that proud spirit?

"No, no," nodded Lady Olivia to herself.
No, no ; I must be very careful what I am
about. She is very good, and kind,  and
most obliging and liberal too, I am sure, about
all our expenditure ;  but there are some

things Oh, I know what I am about. She

can be quite as foolish and tiresome as ever if
she chooses. There was that scene with Harold
Pollaxfen ; had it been with any one else, it
would really have been a terrible esclandre ;
as it was, I did not care a straw,  or rather, I
was very well pleased that he should get a such
a set-down. Impertinent upstart ! To dare to
meddle and interfere, and about Eupert too !
Oh, I was very glad, very glad indeed, that
Kate should stand up for my family as she did.

He was answered indeed ! Ignorant, ill-bred
man ! Kate never could bear him,  nor could 1."

She was not likely to be called upon to do
so for the future, at any rate.

Unless he could make himself disagreeable,
unless some opportunity arose for being provocative
and cantankerous, Pollaxfen now let his
wife's relations alone. Chances did, however, at
times occur to him  since unhappily, at the time
of Alice's settlements being drawn up, it had
been considered well to make her husband an
additional trustee on the property in which she
could only have a life-interest, but which would
descend to her son, should she have one to outlive
her younger sisters.

One old county neighbour, and a first cousin 
poor, and living at a distance  were the other
trustees, neither of whom dreamed of assuming
any responsibility in the matter, beyond doing
what Mr Maxwell told them. Maxwell they
knew ; his wisdom was proverbial, his character
was unimpeachable : if they could serve
their old friend by signing papers now and
then at Maxwell's office, and by listening without
going to sleep when Lady Olivia requested
advice as to the management of her dear

orphaned children, they were very willing todo
so.

Lady Olivia usually had advice to seek, when
she wanted something else.

She was not the only one who had whims
to be gratified during the two years consequent
on their bereavement ; but whereas Kate would
look straight into the eyes of Mr Macculloch or
Cousin Charles, and make her request, and get
put off with fair promises and pretty speeches,
Lady Olivia, who would slip in her little petition
through a side-door as it were, marshalling
a host of fears, hopes, and anxieties through
the grand entrance first, never had any difficulty
in obtaining what she wanted.

It i finesse that the dear girl is so deficient
in," said she.

Pollaxfen alone outwitted Lady Olivia, and
indeed them all, including Maxwell, who wished
a dozen times a-day that his tongue had been
bitten out before he had suggested to the old
laird that the two other trustees were elderly
men, and that the introduction of some young
blood would be advisable, in which case no
one could be more suitable than the intended
husband of his eldest daughter.

He understood Mr Pollaxfen was a man of
business,  and events had shown that he
had understood only too much aright. Money
matters drew out the only abilities Pollaxfen
had ; and it was his delight to torment and
delay,  thus showing his power, even when
other exercise of it was denied him. Luckily,
he was only one of three, so his opportunities
were limited.

In London, however, and with nothing in
any way to call for his interference, the ladies
had no need to fear intrusion.

He had never obtained his desire, had never
achieved that rank in the fashionable world
which he had so persistently coveted. Evelyn
had failed him. Lady Olivia had failed him ; he
had had no other props whereon to lean, and
he and Alice had done nothing unsupported.

He had at first tried hard to lure his first
friend on to take him up, and push him to the
front, as he felt assured she could do if she
would. He had even written himself, offered her
rooms at his house, said all that he could say, 
but she was not to be tempted.

She had found out what she did not know
before, that in London, Harold was surrounded

by wealthy and vulgar relations ; and it was
evident, from the way in which Alice wrote of
Mrs Edgar Pollaxfen and Mrs Albert Pollaxfen,
that these had instantly swarmed around the
bride. No concert, or flower-show, or ball, or
fete of any kind, could be gone to, but it was
in company with one or other of those dashing
ladies; while Harold's sister Lucy was also
up, and staying with him and Alice in Palace
Gardens, and Lucy's name was in every letter.
The writer and Lucy had got bonnets alike :
Lucy was so fond of the theatre, that they went
to a play nearly every night  in the mornings
she and Lucy went shopping. If Lady Olivia
were coming up to present Kate, she and Lucy
would like so much to be presented on the
same occasion.

Lady Olivia remembered Lucy, and remembered
the other members of the Pollaxfen family,
who had all been at Alice's wedding, and whose
costly array had done much to garnish the
festal chambers ; but it cannot be said that she
was glad to find how entirely her step-daughter
appeared to be at one with the wearers of those
wonderful gowns and scarves.

It was all natural enough, and nothing could

VOL. III. C

well be said ; but in announcing that a variety of
causes had obliged her to defer dear Kate's entree,
Lady Olivia did not specify that, under other
circumstances, she would have been glad to have
included Miss Pollaxfen's name on her list.

Blind Alice, however, saw nothing ; and the
next letter from Palace Gardens, expressing a cool
regret that her dear Kate was unable to come
to Town, proceeded eagerly to suggest that, for
her and Lucy's benefit alone, her step-mother
should betake herself thither. A Pes. added
that Mrs Edgar Pollaxfen, curiously enough,
had never been at Court, and would be greatly
obliged if she too might enrol herself under
Lady Olivia's banner ; and Harold would go
also, since he had the promise of his county
member's sanction for his admission,  so they
would be quite a party.

It was too much.

To set forth to a Drawing-room with a rabble
of Pollaxfens at her heels,  to see them thereafter
herding together unknowing and unknown,
 to be asked who they were, and have
to acknowledge them as the people with whom
her husband's eldest daughter was associated for
life,  she could not do it.

Had they been in nowise connected, and had
there been any object to be obtained, Lady
Olivia was wise enough to know that she could
have done as she chose without risk of remonstrating
*' My dear creatures " ; but, in the present
instance, she was aware that, although 
beings Alice's husband might be an excellent
reason for stopping at his house, drinking
his wine, and using his horses, it would be
considered none for producing him and his in
society.

Accordingly, she had no intentions of committing
such an offence.

o

Since that was what he expected, and what
was not to be avoided if once his hospitality
were partaken of, she would prefer to immolate
herself on the altar of Kate, and remain at
Carnochau.

She had done so, and Alice's death had put
an end to the whole embroilment. She need
now never come across either of the two competing
Mrs Pollaxfens, whose names were constantly
in the fashionable journals, but who
were not likely to be met with elsewhere.

The tie between them and her was snapped,
and snapped, oh joy ! before any mischief had

been done. Never but once had the names of
Evelyn or Newbattle appeared in conjunction
with that of PoUaxfen. Never once had she
been " My dear creature " at on their account.
Of course, she had done well about the marriage,
deserving a hearty " Brava I '' for her generalship
; but having secured the man and his
money, she had been equally sagacious in having
shown that she would never intrude him.

All had been most satisfactorily arranged,
even  with a sigh  to poor Alice's leaving no
children behind her.

Pollaxfen was done with ; but how about the
Charles Newbattles ? Lady Olivia at her davenport,
pen in hand, conning over the plan of her
campaign, had to take bearings of the ground in
every direction.

There were the Charles Newbattles. Goodness
knew where they lived, and what appearance
they would make when unearthed !

They were not offensive, like the loud-voiced,
bejewelled Pollaxfen hordes,  but, on the contrary,
they were very meek and poor, and
were quite endurable at Carnochan, where they
seemed to enjoy themselves more than any one
else ever did. She had no objection to them

at all, if they could be kept to that one yearly
visit ; but here, in Town, could they not be suppressed
? Such things were done every day ;
there was no occasion for incivility or unkindness,
 they had simply to let well alone, and the
chances were a hundred to one against a suspicion
of the propinquity of the Scotch cousins
coming to the Charles Newbattles' ears. Except
in the matter of actual distance, they were in
every way more entirely cut off and severed
from these relations than when three hundred
miles lay between the families.

"I think' she suggested, easily, *that we
will not all at once look up our multifarious
kindred, Kate. I have several here and therewith
whom, by-and-by, I will communicate;
and you and Marjorie have the Charles Newbattles
"

But I told them we were coming."
*' How unfortunate ! Did you mention the
day''

** No ; for I did not know it myself."
*' So far well. We can escape a little longer.
I should not have named the project had I been
you ; but young people are hasty, I know. Had
you waited a little "

Why should I wait ? I am longing to see
them."

"Oh," said Lady Olivia, somewhat discomfited
; '* of course, if that be the case, I have
nothing to say. If you are ' longing ' to see
them, very well. But are you quite sure, my
love," more gently, "that they are equally
longing ' to see you ? When people live ina
very small way, they do not always care to
be hunted up, and put to inconvenience, unless
they can in some way be benefited. At present
we can do nothing for your  ahem 
cousins, literally nothing. At Carnochan it was
different ; there, one could really show them
kindness. If," softly,  "if you would think it
over, we could call before we left, and arrange
with them to pay us a nice long visit in November,
just when they are always so glad to get
out of London "

Kate laughed. " No, no ; I cannot wait till
November, nor even till just before we go," she
said. " What ! Be here for three months, and
not see more of them than that ! I wonder
what they would think ! Besides which, I have
been looking forward to seeing Dora as to one
of my principal pleasures, and Marjorie is just as

anxious to be with Josephine. Are you not,
Marjorie 1 "

"Oh yes," said Marjorie, doubtfully; "but if
mamma thinks it is a pity, perhaps we had
better "

What ? Better what  "

It would be easier not to go there at all,
than to find we could not do anything more,"
continued Marjorie, looking from one to the
other. ' Since it is so far away where they
live "

I thought you had been really fond of
Josephine."

** So I am fond of Josephine,  only she does
wear such hats ! Don't look at me like that,
Kate,  I don't mean any harm ; but we could
not exactly have them at our parties, you know;
and would you not think it unfair to have people
when we were by ourselves, and not when we
had anything going on ? "

The colour mantled to her sister's cheek. It
was plain she was, in the language of horsemen
about to bolt, and another word or phrase would
have been the signal for her riding roughshod
over all opposition. But experience had taught
Lady Olivia to know the symptom, and quick as

thought she interposed : the Charles Newbattles,
hats and all, should be permitted to visit in
Chirk Street, rather than that Kate should fly
off at a tangent, and take her to task for certain
other matters as to which it was absolutely
necessary that she should have her own way.
It was of vastly more importance that no demur
should be made to her renewing the acquaintance
of divers lively and not over-scrupulous
associates of her youth, than that there should
now and then be the risk of a nobody being met
on her staircase. By giving in to her impetuous
step-daughter on this point she would gain the
other.

Say no more, Marjorie," cried she, gaily.
'your sister will ask whom she chooses to this
house ; I shall do the same : and we shall both
endeavour to make it pleasant to the other's
guests. We agreed beforehand that ours was to
be a joint-stock concern, did we not '? We must
each do our part,  each contribute our share
to the general fund,  in the matter of friends.
Who will you produce, Maidie ? Whom are we
to look to you for ? "

Of course Maidie had nobody, being ashamed
to mention poor Neddy Maclure and his sisters,

who were up in London for a fortnight, seeing
sights and buying finery,  and who, she knew,
would have been overjoyed to have seen even
once and away in Town, the people whom they
saw every week of their lives in the country.

The Maclures lived within a mile of Carnot
being the only near neighbours the Newbattles
had ; and as it had been their habit from
time immemorial to regard Alice and Kate as
the "glass of fashion and the mould of form,"
they had been amicably looked down upon, and
permitted to come and go at will.

It was not till the two younger Miss Newbattles
grew up that the intimacy with the Maclure
family was felt to be unfortunate. Bertha
and Marjorie made too much of the girls, and
were rather inclined to find Neddy amusing, to
the secret rage of Kate, who could not endure
that a vapid, underbred youth, however good-looking
and assiduous, should be a magnet to
attract her sisters to the cottage, and to make
them put fresh ribbons in their hair.

She thought the Maclures should have let
invitations alone, as they had formerly done, 
never dreaming of projecting schemes, nor of
asking her and Alice down to their little noisy

house, but waiting modestly to be taken notice
of, and accepting hospitalities, without seeing
the necessity for offering any return. In short,
they had known their place.

But now all was changed, and the alteration
was in a great measure owing to this smartly-dressed,
talking, singing, vapouring Neddy. She
stormed to herself when his figure Alas seen in the
avenue, and when at the sight Marjorie would
colour and smile, and show herself as conscious
of being the attraction as any peacock flaunting
its train before an audience.

Yet she was not angry with her sister, as she
ought to have been ; it was only the happy
Neddy whom she longed to shake till the teeth
rattled in his head. He meant no harm,  she
did not suppose that he had really presumed to
lift his eyes beyond the present moment ; but it
was bad enough that he should lay claim even
to that.

Here he is again ! ' One day the exclamation
had escaped her lips when Mrs Popham was
sitting by.

She would not have said so much perhaps 
would at least have taken care not to say it before
that astute visitor  had it not been that.

from various symptoms, distinct though minute,
which had been going on from early morning 
from the fresh flowers in the glasses, and the
fresh braiding of Marjorie's hair, together with
a particular song having been left on the open
piano, and a walk having been declined,  from
these all, separately, and put together, she had
gathered who was expected.

Here he is again ! " she had cried, unable to
help herself, when Neddy, true to time, was seen
approaching.

Marjory had caught the words and Mrs Pop-ham's
smile, and now she knew better than
to name the Maclures when called upon to
add her quota to the sum of eligible acquaintance
which was being made up.

She had told Neddy at parting that they
would be sure to meet, and had talked of being
at the same places at the same time, and of
making up parties to go hither and thither ;
but even at Carnochan, after that smile of Mrs
Popham's, there had arisen in her breast a conviction
of the desirability of not carrying such
projects ultimately in effect  a conviction which
led her to refrain, even as she spoke, from committing
herself to anything special ; while two

days of London, and of Lady Olivia in London,
where she expanded like a blossom in her native
air, impregnating the atmosphere on every side
with her precepts and wisdom, was sufficient to
make the apt pupil shrink from even a casual
encounter.

The Maclures' day was over.

Chapter XXVIII.

A Surprise.

Heaven from all creatures hides the book of Fate,
All but the page prescribed, their present state."

Essay on Man.

I CANNOT think why you should make a fuss
about going to see Dora and Josephine, when
you are always so bad to the poor Maclures,"
Marjorie did just say, however, when, on the
morning following the confab, she saw her sister
preparing to set forth for Fitzroy Square.

*' I do not understand' replied Kate, " why
you should compare the two."

Because any one can see that you think the
Maclures beneath you, and yet I am sure they
are no worse than the Charles Newbattles."

Marjorie ! "

'not a bit worse," said Marjorie, obstinately.

*' To name them in the same day I Dora is as

delightful a creature as ever lived ; and though
I do not care quite so much for Josephine, I always
thought you did. The Maclures are "

her face showed what.

'' They are a great deal better dressed."

Dressed  dressed ! " cried her sister, impatiently.
'dressed! You silly Marjorie''

But what is it all about, then ? You are
never at all kind to poor Selina ; and I always
thought it was because they were poor, and had
to live in a small house, and could not afford todo
as we do."

If you thought anything of the kind, you
were very unjust. ' Poor ! ' ' Small house ! ' As
if that mattered ! "

'' What is it, then '? We know them so welland
they are so fond of us ! "

'' We only know them well because we have
to know them well. We cannot help ourselves.
We have not a taste or a feeling in: common.
I scarcely ever go to the cottage without being
disgusted."

What a shame ! " Marjorie looked quite
dazzling, with the shifting roses in her cheek,
the moisture in her blue eyes, and the pout
on her lip,  she stood up and abashed the

frowning elder sister, who, as usual, was right,
and yet was made to feel herself in the wrong.
The part of champion of the oppressed,  that
part which suited her so well, and which she
had so often played,  was stolen, and played
by her opponent, and here was she in the garb
of the oppressor !

One little triumph, however, she had. " Well,"
she said, "Marjorie, they are your friends, and
you know what I think of them. So herewith I
promise that I will not say another word against
any one of the three the whole time I am here,
I really cannot answer for myself at Car-nolan,
where they provoke me at every turn, 
but here in London, I think I can say I will not
mention their names ; and if you want to ask
them, tell me, and I shall get out of the way."

Oh " said Marjorie, and stopped.

Well ? "

I did not mean that."

'you do not want them here, yourself?"

''N no."

I thought as much. Your eyes are opened
in London ; you see that they are unfit company
for you, directly that you can get better.
You would not have them meet the fine people

you and Lady Olivia are going to see this afternoon
"

All I say is, they are as good as the Charles
Newbattles."

She would hear nothing of what followed.
Kate might have spared her breath and her arguments.
Even Lady Olivia could have better
understood what she meant than did this obtuse,
dogged, impenetrable antagonist. Marjorie
thought she had a right to her own opinion,
and was not to be hoodwinked out of it ; and
she was never quite so friendly to poor Josephine
afterwards, because of what Kate had said.

Jose did not flatter her as Selina Maclure
did  did not insist on letting down her hair to
marvel at its length and beauty  nor did she sit
up at nights working endless embroidery wherewith
to adorn the frocks of her patroness.

Line certainly was the kindest, sweetest
friend,  and, in addition to some dozen or two
of kisses, she got a valuable set of fur trimmings
as a reward for her labour. Those were the
terms the two were on ; they could not meet
without exchanging confidences, and presents.

Josephine Newbattle would have laughed at
the idea of working for her rich cousin, whose

wardrobe was overstocked already ; she had
enough to do with keeping her own things
respectable, and making and mending for the
younger ones ; it was not likely that she would
let her little Johnnie and Jemmy wait for their
warm winter stockings, while she was finishing
the long silk pair which Marjorie had begun for
herself, and which she would fain have turned
over to some one else to finish ere they were
above a third done.

Good, kind, obliging Selina, the moment she
understood what was wanted, could not seize
upon the knitting-needles fast enough. It happened
that she was quite dotingly fond of knitting
in silk, and that she was out of work at
the time, and was only too much delighted to
be allowed to do something for her friend,  but
Miss Maclure made her own out of the affair, we
may be sure.

Lady Olivia, as well as Kate, thought it was
high time to put a stop to the intimacy : things
had been getting too barefaced altogether of
late ; and now, in answer to a certain crossness
of tone with which Marjorie spoke of the Fitzroy
Square expedition, she was met by a rebuff"
from her step-mother, which was so unexpected

VOL. III. D

as to be more efficacious than the whole of Kate's
tornado.

'' I do not wish to hear a word against the
Charles Newbattles/' said Lady Olivia, decidedly.
" The Charles Newbattles are very worthy
people, and I shall certainly  certainly call, as
soon as my other engagements will permit. You
may tell them so, Kate. We should never forget
old friends ; and d apropos of old friends, I have
a note from Lady Beverley just now, saying how
charmed she is to hear she is to see me so soon
again : there was never any fault on her side, I
am convinced, Kate ; and indeed the whole affair
we spoke of the other day happened so long
ago, that it is all buried and forgotten by this
time. With the exception of a very few stupid
and ignorant people, everybody visits Lady
Beverley now, and so I shall''  rather quickly,
" go and see her at once. You have got the
carriage this morning, my love 1 Then Marjorie
and I can have it in the afternoon. Oh, you
are going with Coleman in a cab ? Very well,
very well ; I believe that is quite permissible
nowadays, and it will certainly leave the
horses a little freer, if now and then you and
Marjorie can make use of a cab. Now, mind

you give my compliments, Kate ; for the Charles
Newbattles are really nice friends, although,
perhaps, not the most desirable acquaintances.
As for those people we left at Carnochan, those
Maclures, they would be intolerable either as
the one or the other."

Kate would not look at Marjorie after this,
but set off at once in search of the large,
cheap, rambling domicile tenanted by the obscure
member of the Newbattle race.

Poor and unsuccessful Cousin Charles had
always been ; he was now elderly, patient, and
resigned. An early marriage had been followed
by a large family ; and although the elder children
were by this time grown up, and in one
way and another endeavouring to make their
way in life, and lift its weight off their parents'
shoulders, it was but too evident that
the struggle was still going on, and that both
father and mother had lost in it all the freshness,
vigour, and buoyancy of other days.

How grave, how quiet, and subdued they
were !

They were not so at Carnochan. Cousin
Charles was almost merry there, and was a
favourite with everybody in the house; while



his little plain wife was perhaps the only person
of whom in her life Lady Olivia had never
said an ill word.

Even she had been touched by that quavering
smile.

I think she must be ill," she had once asserted
of poor Mrs Newbattle, who had never
known what was meant by the luxury of being
really, thoroughly, comfortably ill, but who had
always a dull pallor on the cheek, dark rims
round the eyes, an aching back, and a perpetual
sense of something left undone which she ought
to have done.

One day, during a visit from the middle-aged
pair, it fell out that Lady Olivia had a headache.
Cousin Sophia often had headaches, often
felt giddy and sleepless when her day's work
was done ; but then, to be sure, it was her lotto
suffer,  she never said anything,  and it was
only now that, in her concern and sympathy,
she felt that she knew what a headache was.

She slipped into the dressing-room, and fresh
wet bandages were laid from time to time across
the sufferer's brow, and old drowsy tunes were
hummed in a soft monotonous undertone, and
Lady Olivia slept.

When she awoke, the headache was gone 
but the visitor was still there.

"But why did you stay?" cried the astonished
lady. 'rit was too bad, it was really
too bad, on this lovely afternoon. I am quite
ashamed. Could you not have slipped out, after
I had dropped off, at any rate ? "

'the opening of the door would have disturbed
you, and I was quite happy here, it was
so nice and quiet. I did not really mind "

You shall have the carriage, and go for a
drive now, at least. It is not too late."

Oh, not for me ! " It seemed quite wicked
to take out a whole coachman, carriage, and
horses, for only poor old Cousin Sophia. " Not
for me ! " she cried. " If indeed. Lady Olivia,
you were thinking of a drive yourself "

But Lady Olivia preferred to lie still awhile.

The young people then ?

They were nowhere about.

She had to comply, set out in solitary grandeur,
ascertain where she wished to be taken,
and how long she desired to remain out ; and
she could never afterwards think enough of the
attention  nor of the misery of it.

Neither, to do her justice, could Lady Olivia

forget that afternoon. It would not be true to
say that Mrs Charles Newbattle was from that
day forward treated as an honoured guest, nor
even that she was ever after welcomed and
made much of at Carnochan on her annual
visit there,  but one tribute the little homely
woman had, and that was, that no unfriendly
word, no shaft of malice nor of contempt, was
ever thereafter launched at her behind her back.
It was purely as a matter of expediency that a
renewal of intercourse with the cousins was felt
to be undesirable when in Town ; and perhaps,
after a fashion, the worldly-wise lady was not
so entirely at fault in her view of the matter,
as her step-daughter imagined.
Kate was, it must be conceded, a little taken
down and uneasy during the two hours spent
in the Square.

She did not by word or look show to those
around what was passing within, but a little
cold feeling crept over her heart as she sat in
the family circle.

She had not been met quite as she had expected
to be.

And how was the rich, free, bright young
heiress, entangled by no home cares, fettered by

DO wearisome necessities, to know or understand
had it been put before her  that of all days
in the week, and of all hours in the day, she
had chosen the very worst on which to break
into a hard-working, overgrown household?

The announcement of her presence in the
drawing-room  the drawing-room whose " 
" it was, and whose best covers had not
yet come back from the laundress,  the news
that a visitor, and a visitor whose presence at
that early hour portended an ominous stay, had
been ushered into their solitary receiving-room,
fell on all alike, elders and youngsters, with
the weight of a blow. 'heres' " Nows'
In the house ? " was heard in whispers of vexation
up and down stairs, as the tidings were
passed from one to another. Blank consternation
succeeded. They had to go in among the
half-dusted sofas and chairs, whose every infirmity
was exposed by the unmerciful sunshine,
and find there, in the midst of the upset,
their eager, unconscious guest, waiting to be
greeted with warmth equal to her own. How
shyly and miserably each felt his and her 
1 Kate might see nothing to
account for reluctant smiles and languid embraces,

but each poor soul who turned the handle
of the door took in at a glance the tarnished
filigree paper in the fireplace, the darns in the
faded carpet  usually hidden by rugs, which
were at the moment absent  the want of the
best chair-covers. She might perceive nothing
amiss  indeed Kate never could be got to think
of such things,  but every loss, every item awry,
affected Dora and Josephine.

What demon of mischief had possessed their
cousin to rush down upon them in that frantic
fashion ?

She, for whom they had wished to be at their
very best, to catch them at their very worst,  it
was really hard.

And a first visit too ! The first occasion that
any single member of the main line of the New-battle
family had ever set foot within their door !
What report could be given ? What would bethought
'? Try as they might, they could not
seem pleased.

Nobody knew what was to be done with
Kate; each one had something else on hand,
and something they were dying to attend to.

Dora, having just succeeded in packing off
the younger boys to school, had promised herself

a clear morning without interruptions,
which should be entirely given up to working
out the art design to be shown at the next
prize-meeting of her society,  Josephine was
already, when the door-bell rang, more humbly
employed. Her solitary muslin robe had
just been popped into the wash-tub, with a view
to its being ready for wear by the time she
should have to receive these very cousins, Kate
and Marjorie ; and she was herself  and no
shame to her  making bare her arms to plunge
them in the warm soap-suds, when told of the
terrible advent below. Then she had, as soon
as she could, to appear, all unpresentable like
the rest, rather than hurt her cousin's feelings.
It might be kind of Kate to come, but surely
it was kindness mistaken and inappropriate. It
was kindness which might have been dispensed
with ; and perhaps something of the aspiration
that it had been, was visible in one and another
perturbed countenance. Afterwards, in the
course of remarking on the length of her stay,
their voices were undeniably rueful. Good and
reasonable as they were, they could not help a
pang as they reflected that she, to whom time
was nothing, had stolen their precious hours,

and had perhaps lost Dora her opportunity
for ever.

At Carnochan, Dora had been at Kate's disposal
all day long, and there they had suited
each other admirably,  but then Dora's holiday-making
was Kate's daily life.

All the year round, as the humble relation
went through her drudgery, she looked forward
to that fortnight's leisure and intercourse. Her
tastes were the same as those of the more fortunate
Kate, and, in the intellectual atmosphere,
she, too, would have thriven, had fate been
kinder ; but as it was, with all her tasks upon
her mind, with work before her and work behind
her,  no escape and no rest practicable, 
it is hardly to be wondered at that she should
have seemed strangely unlike herself on that
May morning in Fitzroy Square.

Kate was perplexed when it appeared that by
no possibility could a morning be arranged weekly
for the two to spend in each other's company, and
that her schemes for going together to hear poets,
lecturers, musicians, and what not, were looked
doubtfully upon. She had said nothing of such
projects to Lady Olivia, but she had reckoned
on their being responded to with eagerness by

Dora and Josephine ; and she was still, as we
know, a little wilful, a little inclined to enjoy a
tilt of arms  it would really have given an additional
zest to the pleasure of doing the kindness
to have had to announce her intentions to
her step-mother.

And now the girls would have nothing done
for them !

How could I go ? " said Dora, afterwards.
If I were once to begin, there would be no end
of it I If Kate will send us gallery tickets, and
let us sometimes go by ourselves in the evenings,
we may manage it,  but the idea of our being
dressed out, and driven down, and sitting among
all the fine folks at St James's Hall ! "

But it is a pity," said Josephine, sorrowfully.
And when Kate had taken all the trouble to

come soon, on purpose

'* Trouble ! it is no trouble to her. She has

nothing else to do," cried poor Dora, who had
some excuse for being disloyal, in that she was
tired out, and had spoilt her work, even when
at last she had sat down to it. " If Kate had
only been like other people, she would have
found out how to cut short her visit ; but she
sat on and on."

"Well, I liked her for doing it," responded
honest Jo; *rand though I knew my gown was
being soaked to pieces, and could not even recollect
whether I had put in the bran to keep the
colour fast or not, still I liked Kate for staying
as she did,  instead of bouncing in and out like
a fine young lady, with, * So sorry that I must
run, but really I haven't a minute when everybody
knows that she has only come because she
has been so bored at home that she has not
known what to do with herself ! ''

'alicia Warrington," said Dora, obliged to
laugh. " Yes, that is her, exactly. But really,
Josephine, I do hope those two won't take to
coming here often, and asking us there. You
would just get to talking nonsense, while Marjorie
looks at herself in the glass ; and you
would try on her hats, and wish you had the
same "

Indeed I should not ! "

You poor Jo, you couldn't help it ; and I did
not mean to vex you, dear. You are as good
an old Jo as ever lived, when people let you
alone ; but you can't stand the infection of Marjorie.
Don't put yourself in her way," said
Dora, very kindly.

I had been so looking forward to their
coming," murmured her sister ; " and though I
was at the wash-tub, I was determined not to
mind about my gown. I did not grudge Kate

my time. How could you '? Why, Dora ! "

But Dora had rushed away to hide her face.

No, Lady Olivia need not have been afraid
of them. It was long before any one of the
family appeared in Chirk Street ; and then one
solitary card, in ancient fashion engraved, announced
that the civility which had cost the
most agonising timidity and tremors to Cousin
Charles and his wife, had at length been paid.

After that, she did drive to Fitzroy Square
herself, and do her best to be affable.

Unfortunately, however, it was not so easy
as she had expected : she, as well as Kate, was
somewhat dismayed,  more dismayed than she
had really anticipated being, as she avowed
afterwards. That very dowdy brown silk, that
altogether shocking cap ! And yet the two
had only been put on because Lady Olivia was
expected, and somehow Lady Olivia knew it.
She knew by intuition that Cousin Sophia was
not in working garb ; and it seemed as if it
were hardly within the limits of possibility that

one who was thus when for company prepared,
should ever have been permitted to lay a hand
upon her own august brow.

Marjorie looked like a royal princess in her
spotless robes, with her smiling face, and flushed,
healthy cheek, between those spiritless, dull-looking
girls.

Lady Olivia herself, becomingly draped and
veiled, with rich lace tuckers round her throat,
and a rich rustling train spreading out behind,
shone forth with a marvellous lustre of youth
and comeliness.

Josephine took the pattern of that tucker in
her mind's eye on the spot, and reproduced it,
as she believed, for her mother, in imitation
edging; but nobody could say that it looked
the same. Nor could she by any means catch
the poke of Lady Olivia's white chip bonnet, in
which nestled the two contrasting ostrich-tips
that fell so softly on to the hair beneath.

Mrs Newbattle s bonnet would not poke, and
she had only one very old and very thin little
feather to curl over the brim. The effect was
not what it should have been, in consequence ;
and, " The way they get up these fine fashionable
ladies is altogether too exasperating," cried the

baffled young milliner, in her despair. " Lady
Olivia cannot be a day younger than our own
dear mammy, and yet she looks quite at a different
time of life. I did not want those grand
plumes of Marjorie's half so much for myself,
as I wanted the little red and white tips for
mother."

Marjorie's plumes would have been no good
to you'' observed her brother Walter, who had
been present during the call, and who had somehow
felt as if all the brightness had faded out
of the large, dingy room after Marjorie left.
You could not wear an erection like hers on
your little head, Josephine ; it would not be in
keeping."

That is because you are an artist, and go in
for harmony of tone, and colour, and models,
and nonsense. I like a good hat ; and if I had
that one of Marjorie's, I should soon show you
whether I could wear it or not ! "

I wish," said Walter, softly, " she would let
me paint her."

'' Paint Kate rather," suggested Kate's friend
Dora  *' paint Kate, Walter, if you paint either
of them. Marjorie is pretty  well, more than
pretty, perhaps," as both brother and sister exclaimed

at the term,  " but Kate  oli, I think I
never saw any one like Kate ! Such features,
and such expression ! It is not when she is
quiet that she is at her best; it is when she
grows restive, when the lip begins to twitch, the
eye to sparkle, the blood to come and go "

But, my good girl  woa  stop ! How am
I to paint all this lip-twitching, eye-sparkling,
blood coming and going ? Eh ? "

"I think I see Kate sitting for her portrait,
besides," added Josephine.

"I admire Kate extremely," continued the
brother. "Strictly speaking, she is, of course,
the greater beauty of the two ; but I confess,"
consciously, "that I feel more  more drawn to
trying my hand on her sister. I think I could
make a better thing of it. If Dora, now, could
paint, and could set to work on a twitching lip,
and changing colour, and make her whole picture
grow restive and jump about, she would be the
one to take Kate."

He was laughing nervously, and Dora took no
offence ; she only wondered a little, and laughed
at herself a little, and suggested, " Try."

But Walter would not try.

He knew very well what he wanted, and he

thought he knew how to obtain his wish, moreover.


He did not go near Chirk Street ; he knew
better than that. Silently he prepared his canvas,
and got everything ready ; and then, like a
spider, he sat and watched for his fly.

The fly was not Marjorie, but her sister.
Could he get round Kate, he had few doubts
as to overcoming Miss Vanity's scruples. He
had read her pretty well. Every movement of
the golden head, every turn of her eyes, had
said, " You painter fellow, do you see me 1 Tm
got up for you. Did not I know we were coming
here, and that this was your day at home ?
And did not I tilt my hat and feathers on one
side, and take off half my ornaments, on purpose
to dazzle your artistic senses ? There ! look at
me as long as you please ; make a study of me,
if you like. I am giving you the chance ; if you
don't take it, 'tis your loss, not mine''

And seeing all this as plainly as if he had
heard the words, he was no whit behindhand in
responding. He would, at all events, make his
venture.

At length Kate came. She did not come
often ; it was harder than she had thought it

VOL. III. E

would be, to find a spare afternoon. Lady-olivia's
highest hopes had been fulfilled ; they
had engagements for morning, noon, and night,
and their engagements were to the best houses.
And then she had her own little, humble duties,
which were amicably tolerated, since dear Kate
was so good and religious, and since she made
so many nice friends at the dear duchess's, and
since she did nothing that was wild or improper.
Visiting a few sick people in the houses at the
back of their own, and going to Lady William's
ward at the hospital once a-week, was a very
nice, quiet, ladylike way of being good, and
nobody could object to it.

So Kate's time was pretty well filled up, one
way or other ; and as she soon learned to feel
that it was only at Carnochan that she must
expect to find her cousins free from cares, and
fit for relaxation, she did not . intrude on them,
contenting herself with doing such little kindnesses
as came in her way, and prognosticating
pleasant future meetings in the north.

One day, however, and that not very long
after Walter had begun to watch for her, she
came to the Square. He caught her, and made
his request. What did she think 1 Would

she speak for him ? Would Lady Olivia disapprove
?

Kate thought not,  indeed something had
already been said about a picture ; she would
see what could be done.

One amendment on his proposal, only, she
insisted upon. It was not to be a favour
granted to him. Neither for his sake, nor for
Marjorie's, would she ask her step-mother to
countenance such a proceeding. No ; the business
must be regularly entered into, as a commission
given to her cousin by herself. She
would have a right to the picture when finished,
and he must either value it for her himself,
or permit the opinion of some authority to
be passed on it.

Walter objected valiantly.

Then he had the pleasure of witnessing all
that varied play of countenance which his sister
had called upon him to delineate ; and but that
he really durst not, he longed to follow up
Dora's suggestion, and make a second overture.

It was too late now, and vain was it even to
sue for the full measure of the cup of sweetness
he had held before the eye of fancy. No, indeed
! He saw the slight figure thrown back,

the proud young neck reared up, fancied the
nostril quivered, and gave in abjectly. *' I
thought she would have stamped," he said to
himself afterwards.

So it was ultimately arranged that he might
paint, but that he must be paid for it.

He was not so well content as he should
have been ; artists are a thriftless race, and
the having begged for the task which was
now to line his pocket, seemed almost a
humiliation. He was angry with Kate, and
angry with himself. Why had she been so
imperious, and he so tame '? He had allowed
himself to be overawed by a single glance of
her eye, and dictated to by the tone of her
voice, in place of the words. A mere Miss,
too,  scarcely out of her teens ! He ' wished
Kate had been far enough ere he had asked
her ; " he could have made far easier terms
with Lady Olivia ; and with Marjorie easiest
of all. Slie at any rate, would have seen that
the honour was enough for him.

But Kate was such a queer, tiresome girl ;
one never knew what she would say, or what
she would do. * I'll answer for it, she leads
her precious step-mother a lively life," he confided

to the protesting Dora. '* Til be bound,
Lady Olivia would bless the man who would
take Kate off her hands,  if it were not for
Carnochan.''

The opportunity for such a benediction will
not be soon forthcoming, I should say," replied
Dora. Dora had no high opinion of the married
state, she told herself.

Won't it ? '' Walter misunderstood. '' Wont
it, then '? Why, Kate is the sort of girl no
man can look at, and not want to be after, 
well, I can't say *no man,' for I have just
escaped by the skin of my teeth, never mind
how or why  but it's a fact, all the same.
She's all there, you know : every inch of her
is on the spot in a moment when there's anything
she cares for going on. You should have
seen her just now ; by Jove, I didn't know which
way to turn ! I declare I  I wasn't sorry when
the whole scene was over, I felt myself such a
fool ; and what was it all about ? Nothing, the
merest nothing,  only my lady chose to have
her own way in spite of reason  a woman,
every inch of her ; eh, Dora ?  and the truth
is, she looked so whimsically and exasperatingly
lovely all the time she was giving utterance

to the most provoking nonsense that ever
man listened to, that  that  that  pshaw ! all
I mean is, it was lucky the man was me, and
no other'

As for Kate, she hurried home, no less full of
it all. Here at last had opened of itself a way
in which she might benefit, and perchance
permanently, the poor relations who at times
pressed somewhat heavily on her conscience ;
and anticipating no difficulty from Lady Olivia
which she might not ultimately succeed in
smoothing away, she ran up-stairs gaily on
hearing that the ladies had returned from their
drive and were in the drawing-room. No
time was to be lost, since Walter had been
promised a little note to be despatched that
evening, in answer to the "It would be well
that I should know soon," which he had
fancied careless and indifferent enough to hide
any deeper emotion. It had not quite done so;
a lurking anxiety had been apparent throughout
it all ; and this had obtained for him his
request far more readily than anything else
could have done.

She ran up, as we have said ; and finding
no one in the front room, pursued the sound

of voices, and passed through the folding-doors
to the shady recess at the back, wherein
the afternoon tea-table was usually placed.

Some one was sitting beside Lady Olivia on
the sofa, looking up at Marjorie, who stood
before them both, displaying herself to best
advantage in her pretty fanciful draperies, 
some one whose dark smooth head was thrown
back on the cushion, and whose arm was
stretched out along the sofa. He turned towards
her,  and her face changed.

It was Evelyn.

CHAPTER XXIX.

A BAD HALF-hour.

'past and to come seem best; things present worst."

Henry IV.

My dear Kate, who do you think we have got
here ? "

Why, of course she can guess' cried Marjorie,
before her step-mother could proceed further
; '' she has only to look up " -pointing to
the fine crayon head which Lady Olivia had not
forgotten to bring from Carnochan, and hang
in a prominent place, where it could attract
attention. " Kate does not need to ask," continued
her sister, patronisingly.

It was well that neither of them looked at
Kate. The mother's eyes were fondly bent upon
her son, and Marjorie was regarding his portrait
; the silent greeting between the two who
had once been lovers, passed unheeded.

He rose, she came forward, and they took
each other's hands.

It seemed to Kate that he was looking at her,
though she could not look at him ; and then she
fell into the background, one thing only being
clear amidst the ringing in her ears, the swimming
of her eyes  that she must not betray her
trust.

She had pledged her word,  how hard it had
been to keep it, no one knew; come what might,
she must not now give way.

But what a moment it was 1

The sun was blazing outside like a furnace,
and it had so blinded her, that on first entering
the cool dark room wherein the group had assembled,
she had needed the pause consequent
on her entrance to be sure of what her own eyes
saw ; and now the closely drawn blinds, and
the shadow they cast, served her in good stead.
No one not seeking information from her face
could have told that it was working strangely,
and there was nothing to call for comment in
either her manner or her movements.

"Come, Kate, sit down, and rest," said her
step-mother.

Marjorie did all the standing in that house.

She liked to be seen from head to foot, and she
had a variety of effective tricks which came into
play on these occasions. When the youngest
Miss Newbattle was arrayed and glorious, she
would show herself to any one, be it the oldest
crone or the youngest child,  none were too
mean to be treated to a view. How much
more this magnificent new " brother " !

He was talked at, smiled at, flourished at
immediately, and the two were deep in recollections,
when Kate's entrance created a diversion.
No sooner, however, had the very slight bustle
consequent on the introduction of the newcomer
subsided, than the thread of " Do you
remembers " was renewed with eagerness ; and
even Lady Olivia had to wait for her turn.

*' Eupert, do you remember how you made me
take the grapes ? "

There was not much ' making ' in the question,
I take it."

*' Oh, there was indeed ; I was frightened out
of my wits''

Your little wits ! " murmured her stepmother.


"I had my little wits, mamma, as well as
other people. I liked the grapes, but I did not

like being scolded and sent to bed for stealing
them ; so I made Eupert say that he had made
me do the deed, and then we ate our grapes together
comfortably."

*' Now, be quiet, chatterton ; I want to hear
and to speak too." Lady Olivia could no longer
be kept back. " My dearest Eupert, I have a
hundred things to say."

Yes," said Eupert, starting. Where had his
wits been next ? Back in those bygone days ?
Marjorie felt sure they had, and that he had
been recalling her as his " blue-eyed butterfly,"
and that he had been saying to himself, moreover,
perhaps, how gorgeous the butterfly had
now become.

She flew at Lady Olivia with a rush. " Now,
mamma, when you begin like that, I know you
are going to be prosy  and it is far, far too hot
to be prosy. Just let us hold our tongues, and
look at each other, and eat cake. There is Kate,
taking no heed of anybody ; sensible old darling
she goes at her tea and cake  oho, she has
not touched them ! Why, you stupid thing,
what have you done to make yourself look like
that 1 Pocketing out to the East End "

*stop, stop! East End? What are you

thinking of, child ? " interposed the reproving
tones of Lady Olivia. '' Rupert will suppose
you mean Retinal Green, at least ! She has
only been to Fitzroy Square, my dear Eupert,
to see some very good, kind people who live
there. Dear Kate is so self-denying, she shrinks
from no duty ; but the tax is sometimes,  and
why did you not drive, my love ? "

We came by train ; it takes so much less
time." Speaking even those few words, with
the painful conviction that some one was listening
to hear how she spoke, was almost more
than the fluttering breath could accomplish ;
but it was done, and there was no need for
more. A sudden fancy had seized her sister,
and she now twirled a pirouette which set all
her feathers waving, and sank on one knee beside
Kate's chair.

Oh, Kate, does Walter want to paint my
picture 1 "

"Yes," said Kate, softly. She hardly knew
what she was saying, and was entirely unconscious
that half an hour before it had been the
last thing she had meant to have had drawn
from her, until Lady Olivia's sanction had been
obtained. All of this was now obliterated in

the haze which had fallen over the thoughts and
wishes of the morning. She answered " Yes,"
and the clamour which followed was inaudible.
She only heard the silence beyond, and saw that
a hand had been raised as though to screen the
eyes of a person who meant to hide the direction
they took. He was certainly looking at her.

What V said Marjorie, clapping her hands;
do you really mean it ? "

* Yes'' again, almost in a whisper.

How delightful ! Do you hear that, mamma?
Rupert, do you hear that ? My picture to betaken,
 and not in a horrid, stupid way  not
 at the request of the family,' to make up the
set of portraits for the gallery, but to be asked
for by the man himself ! I thought he would
do it," triumphantly. " I thought so when I
was there the other day. I felt sure he was upto
something, by the way he kept looking "

He ought to take her now," Lady Olivia
nodded, aside. 'look, Eupert. As she stands.
Charming ! "

But tell me," proceeded the charming one, 
*' tell me how it came about 1 Did he come to
you ? Did he ask you ? Oh no, I remember
you have just been there. Why, Kate," in accents

of bitter disappointment,  " why, Kate, I
believe you went there to speak to him, and
you mean to give him the thing to do for a
charity ! "

*' There's an accusation'' said Evelyn, rousing
himself, as the others laughed. " I must say I
shouldn't care to be made * a charity ' of myself.
It is not flattering, is it, Marjorie ? "

I won't be done, and that's all about it,"
said Marjorie, pouting.

Walter asked me ; and I only gave him the
commission afterwards," said Kate, addressing
her sister, and looking at no one else. "It is
all settled, if Lady Olivia approves."

'' Well, my dear," replied Lady Olivia, with
a delighted glance at her son, to be sure that
he had observed the deference to her, which in
his presence was so especially acceptable, " you
were very right to make no unconditional arrangement.
I will think it over. Mr  ahem" 
she did not wish to say the name of Newbattle
'' Walter is a very rising young artist, I am
told, and perhaps we could not do better ;
still "

"No stills no *buts,' mamma; Kate has
settled it all. There ! "

You see what a tyrant we have got, Eupert.
You little thought, when you left us five years
ago, that the little good Marjorie would have
changed into this great arbitrary creature."

I little thought she would have had five
years of my absence to change in," he said.

And am I changed, Rupert ? " said Marjorie,
fishing. "Was I a * little good' girl once?
Kate was never good, she was always rather
vicious "

"Was she?"

How odd that he spoke so !  that he did
not laugh, and banter, and make fun about it !
She had even halted for Lady Olivia's playful
rebuke and Eupert's encouragement ; but his
Was she ? " was uttered in a tone that was quite
peculiar; and as he said it he stole,  yes, she was
sure that he stole,  a long, furtive look at her
sister.

That was not what he was to do at all ; he
was to look at her, not Kate.

Oh, well," she rattled on, lightly, " she is as
good as gold now, and only plagues people now
and then, to keep her hand in. But if I thought
that in the matter of my picture she had set
about to cheat what ? "

He had said something to himself, which
nobody caught.

"What did you say?" demanded Marjorie.
Oh, you think she would not play me such a
trick, I suppose ? But then you don't know our
Kate ; she has all sorts of Quixotic ideas."

"Now, my dear Marjorie, I must really beg
that you will not say such things. I can not
have Kate called Quixotic," said Lady Olivia,
with great seriousness. "I have told you so
before. Nothing can do a girl more harm than
such a reputation ; and it is not true either,
Eupert  there is nothing in the smallest degree
Quixotic about my dear daughter," assuming,
in the excitement of the moment, a solemnity
which could not but be ludicrous.

One person present, however, knew that Lady
Olivia was not quite so absurd as she appeared.

Kate felt that Marjorie would not have cared
to be branded as Quixotic herself; and, moreover,
that the epithet, applied in all sportiveness,
usually followed some little fit of
foolish jealousy.

And she was perfectly right. Marjorie had
noted Evelyn's look. "I daresay he rather admires
Kate," she now said to herself ; " but Kate does

not think much of him, or she would not be so
silent. Men like lively girls ; I shall certainly
be his favourite in the long-runs''

At length Eupert rose to go.

He had rooms at his club, within half a mile,
and would see them constantly ; but he was
engaged for that evening.

As soon as he had taken his departure, and
inquiry could be made with tolerable composure
as to how, when, and why he had come, the
anxious, shivering, feverish Kate had the satisfaction
of hearing all about it ; and for once in
her life she did not find Lady Olivia tedious.

The most prolix and verbose statements were
listened to with undeviating attention ; and
though Marjorie must interrupt at every turn 
resolute on knowing more about her picture, on
hearing what Walter had said, and what Kate
had said, and when she was to have her first
sitting  Kate, too, showed her spirit. With
Evelyn absent, she could and would ask about
him ; she would not be daunted even by her
sister's pertinacity ; and at length she had as
full an account as had been given to Lady
Olivia herself. Her son had left the service at
the close of the campaign, as he had before

VOL. III. F

spoken of doing, but he had done so rather more
abruptly than he had originally intended, and
having received their London address only the
day before sailing, he had thought he could not
do better than appear without forewarning.

Oh yes, the explanation was there in full, had
any one cared for it, but it may be doubted
whether the girl who listened desired more than
merely to be talking of the one subject, to the
exclusion of every other ; while the narrator
equally, or almost equally, carried out of herself,
was scarcely less indifferent. He had come, and
that was enough. He had come for good, and
his mother's happiness was complete.

At thirty-four a young man should have
done with roving, and should begin to take a
pride in his ancestral seat, she said. Surely
now, at least, he would think it time to marry
and settle down. All at once she discovered
that she had wanted this for years, and would
have scouted the idea that not so very long
before, nothing had terrified her more than the
idea of becoming a dowager. Dowagerhood had
been shorn of more than half its horrors since
those days. Now, although the season was
rather far advanced, Rupert might even this

year make his mark, would certainly come in
with all the dash of a novelty, and perchance
cut out the jaded dandies who had been hard at
work since Easter. Then, if he would only do
something, and if Marjorie would only do something
 but stop ! what if they should take it
into their heads to  do something " together ?

o o

No ; that she could not, would not allow.
Each must look higher than the other.

Rupert must be told the very next day about
young Lord Fairlight, and Marjorie must have
it laid down to her that the new arrival was
to be considered in the most strictly fraternal
aspect.

Nothing," considered Lady Olivia, " so effectually
damps romantic fancies as being given
every facility for humouring them : if the girls
see my son morning, noon, and night, they will
never think of him, handsome and distinguished-looking
though he be; and unless they draw him
on, he will never think of them either." A sensible
general remark, which, however, did not
exactly hit the case in point, as our readers
know.

Marjorie was wild over her picture; frantic
even about her boots, that were never to be seen ;

and fidgety and variable over each portion of
her attire : but in the midst of her deepest distraction,
the announcement that Captain Evelyn
was below was sufficient to bring her down. He
went out with them on the second evening after
his arrival, and every one was glad to see him
back again. He was speedily posted up in all
that was now going on; had half-a-dozen secrets
confided in his ear before the night was over ;
and from the place where he took up his position,
holding quite a little court behind a side-door
on the outer landing, there issued sounds
of suppressed mirth and revelry, highly tantalising
to all the fair ones beyond. None of his
popularity had declined. Billies and Charles
and Eddies clustered round him as of old ; and
a certain Max, who was of a more than ordinarily
cheerful disposition, burst out a laughing
in his face at intervals.

At length, however, he appeared to bethink
himself that he was neglecting Lady Olivia's
girls, and sought them out, only to find the
reflection had come too late. He had not had
a chance for the past hour.

Marjorie said to herself that he showed no
fight. She was rather put out that he took his

dismissal so peaceably, and tossed her mazy
golden locks as she muttered, " Stupid ! If he
had said a word, I could have managed it.
Why, I never dance with Cecil Barrington if
there be any one else. There he goes to Kate
now."

The " he " alluded to was not Mr Barrington,
but Evelyn, who, not without some inward perturbation,
was, for the first time since his return,
voluntarily accosting her sister.

It was plain that '' No '' was being said ; but
then followed a pause, a few more words, and
her hand lay within his arm.

They went off among the dancers, and the
first round showed that not a dancer in the
room could equal Kate's partner. The easy
spring, the precision, and the grace with which
Captain Evelyn waltzed, had once been well
known in Town ; he had lost none of it, as he had
lost no attraction in face or figure : and though
it was impossible for spectators to say whether
the lady he had chosen was his equal in the first
respect, she wanted nothing in the last. They
were the handsomest pair on the floor.

That stupid Cecy Barrington ! " cried Marjorie,
under her breath.

As long as all around were floating like themselves
to the soft melodious strains, Kate moved
mechanically with the rest, and hardly realised
what had taken place. The touch of Evelyn s
hand on her waist was so light, that although she
could not exercise any volition of her own, the
tie which bound her to him was so indefinable,
that it seemed as if they had but one movement,
one will, between them. Not that she excelled
for practice and early training had been wanting;
but she was naturally elegant, and her
lithe slender form, made for activity and grace,
prevented any awkwardness, even on unfamiliar
ground. Had Evelyn been caring about the
matter, which he certainly was not, he would
still have been satisfied with her step. As it
was, he prolonged the rounds from a different
motive : he had a task to perform as soon as
the dance was over; and until it was off his
mind, he could hardly bring himself to speak
to his partner.

Neither cared, indeed, to stand still. Almost
ere she had drawn her breath, she was asked if
she were ready again ; and though the final cessation
of the music shot a feeling of terror into
her heart  as she, too, anticipated a trying moment

 it was something of a relief at the same
time.

Evelyn, when he had overcome her scruples
as to accepting him in place of a tardy youth
who had been out of the way at the moment
the dance began, had not merely urged his
cause, but had intimated pretty plainly that
more lay behind. He now led her where they
could not be overheard, and without allowing
himself time to hesitate, plunged boldly into the
subject he wished to introduce.

There is something I have to say to you,"
he began, not looking at her, but obviously getting
off his lesson as quickly as possible, ' and
this chance is what I have been waiting for.

After what  what took place once " He

stopped.

*' Yes." Very steadily, very gravely spoken.

"May I allude to it?"

"Yes."

Now that we have met again, and that we
shall have to meet daily, we should both be in
continual fear  that is to say, very uncomfortable
 I mean it would be awkward for both of
us, if we should begin by avoiding each other.
And  and  I thought, if we were to agree to 

to  what I mean is, that if we could just see
each other as if there were nothing 1 "

"Yes."

Do you understand 1 "

'eyes. And  and you are quite right. '

"We may be friends, and speak to each
other, and go about with each other," said Evelyn
eagerly, and evidently relieved to have goton
so well. " You see, I shall have to be in your
way, as you are under my mother's care, and I
should like to be with you too, if  if it can be
done ; and  and we can be all on good terms,
without any "

Bother," said Kate, with a smile.

That's it  bother. If there is to be no bother,
it will be pleasant for us all. I know you
have forgiven me," he added, in a different tone.
Kate, will you try to forget ? "

It shall be as you say, Experts'' replied she,
trembling a little. " I am glad you spoke ; it
was kind of you, and it was the best thing you
could have done. Yesterday," she went on
bravely,  '' yesterday I was taken by surprise ;
it was so strange, so very unexpected ; and I
am afraid I showed "

Recognition 1 To no eyes but mine. But
I was angry with myself for having placed you
in such a position,  exposed you to such a trial.
That, too, I wish to explain ; you must have
thought me abominably heedless, but, indeed,
I meant to get away before you came in. I
thought I understood that you were away for
the day "

'' Oh, it did not matter."

 And you are well  quite well ? But I need
not ask. I "

Oh, you are here '? " said Marjorie's voice in
the doorway ; * I thought you were down at
supper, Kate ; and there is poor Sir Harry
stamping and swearing "

Don't send your sister his way, then," said
Evelyn, sitting still with a determined face.
* Tell us his whereabouts, and we will give him
a wide berth, Marjorie."

'' It is really too bad of Kate; I never thought
she would have been the one to treat poor Sir
Harry so unhandsomely. He always reckons
on her, Eupert. She is his standing-dish,  his
piece-nonresistance : he knows that, however
shocking his performance, Kate will pull him

through. She does look rather inclined to give
him a cuff on the ear for his pains, all the same,
sometimes' she added, in parenthesis.

Well ? '' said Evelyn, coolly.

"You had better go back to the dancing-room,
Kate," continued the young lady, turning
to address her sister ; '' you really had, if you
don't want to make a fuss."

** Please take me," said poor Kate, rising
hastily, and feeling she knew not what.

Please do nothing of the kind," interposed
Marjorie, her intrepidity being quite equal to
the call upon it ; " here is Mr Barrington, only
too much charmed to escort the recusant, and
see that she behaves better in future," looking
at him to intimate he was to do as he
was bid. " And here am I, at your honour's
service for the next waltz," dropping a curtsey
in the most accomplished style imaginable before
the other gentleman.

'' The truth is, Rupert," she continued confidentially,
as the party mechanically fell into
the ordained arrangement,  ' there, let them
get out of hearing,  the truth is, that I did not
choose to commit myself to you until I knew
your paces; but now that I see you dance

divinely, I am no more afraid. A good partner
is everything," continued the girl, who had
never had a partner at all until within the last
six weeks. " How did you get on with Kate ? "

'not fair, that. I shall have Kate asking
next how I got on with you ? "

But did you notice how neatly I passed on
Cecy Barrington to her ? He plagues me so
dreadfully, you know, that really I have to take
care of myself. I don't wish to be unkind, but
he should not encroach ; he will have to learn
to put up with Kate now and then."

Cruel," said Evelyn, with a movement of
the lips that was not a smile, but had something
of the effect of one. " What do people do when
they ' have to put up with ' Kate 1 Tell me, incase
that evil fate may befall me some time or
other. Do they all look as resigned as poor
Barrington did ; or do some of them stamp
and swear like Sir Harry ? "

*' What do you mean 1 I don't understand
you."

*' She would have understood," muttered Evelyn.
*' Half a word was always enough for her.
Well, the worst is over, and now I may be as
kind to the poor girl as I please."

Majore PROCLAIMS HER OPINIONS AND
APPLAUDS HER HONESTY.

A few brief words her character portray,

This world contents her  if she might but stay,"

Taylor.

So Kate learned what was now before her :
nothing more was ever to be said on the old
subject ; and that book of the past which had
dropped from its shelf, and fallen open with
a fluttering of leaves that threw up to view
this and that buried scene, was to be fast shut
again for ever.

Evelyn came and went ; his being of the
party made no change in the gay distractions
which now entirely filled up the days of Lady
Olivia and Marjorie,  nay, their having him
was only an excuse for venturing further, including
more than had been done before.

Marjorie made him her slave.

He had to be there early and late, and in
attendance wherever she went, or my lady was
not pleased. He had to give his opinion of
her portrait, of her riding-habit, of her  oh,
fie !  stockings. The pretty clocked and embroidered
stockings, which came in boxes tied
up with blue ribbon, were passed over to him
for review, and brother Rupert took it upon
himself to pronounce that he could not passa
satisfactory verdict until he saw the articles
in use. Lady Olivia might tap him with her
fan at this ; but then, she said, among brothers
and sisters there was no use in being prudish.
She was quicker than Marjorie in some matters.

On Sunday afternoons there was always a
wonderful dressing up of the latter. And for
whom ? They had hardly ever any visitors,
having been obliged to discourage all mere
acquaintances, to please Kate. " But although
dear Kate still retains some old-fashioned Scotch
prejudices," Lady Olivia had said, "she will
certainly not extend them to you, Rupert.
Rupert may be welcomed, may he not, Kate ?
It is our only day for having him quite to
ourselves."

Accordingly, it did just occur to Kate that
there was some reason for the marvellous toilet
which blazed forth on their one quiet day.
Maidie averred that she liked to wear her new
things, that it was of no use laying clothes by,
and that one should always be fit to be seen,
whether people came or not. She saw no reason
for being dowdy on Sundays more than on other
days; and no representations from her injured
and interested maid could make her feel that
her hair, as it had been good enough for church,
could not need rearranging, just for sitting upstairs
in a darkened drawing-room.

Its sheer ill-nature of her, and that's what
it is ! " alleged Coleman. '* Gets out of order,
indeed ! Fiddlestick ! That's what I say. Miss
Marjorie's hair never used to get out of order on
a Sunday till Captain Evelyn took to coming
regular,  and I do think 'tis a sin and a shame
to keep a poor woman indoors for near upon an
hour frizzling and tying hair, and me with two
miles to walk to my chapel  all in the heat of
the day, too. Laws ! he'll never think a pin the
more of her for being all set out for him ! She
should make believe not to care whether he
came or not, if she wants to bring him round ;

VOL. III. G

but there ! she'll not catch him, nohow. He's
not for her at all, as is plain enough, one would
think. Can't Miss Marjorie see that all the time
that he's fiddling and giggling behind her chair,
he's no more thinking of her than if she was the
sweep ? Oh, la ! " cried the lady's-maid, with
a toss of her head, " I could tell you where his
eyes is ! Not two miles off", neither ! Don't he
watch somebody in and out of the room, and
aunt his head always turned her way, whichever
that is,  and don't I have to give him the
white shawl, before he'll take either of the others
out of my hands, when I come down with the
wraps, before they goes out? Miss Marjorie's
being by, don't shut him up like a knife,  he
doesn't hear every word she says, and see every
turn she takes, and make as though he didn't.
There'll be a fine to-do some of these days, when
she finds out that all the bows and the ribbons
have been for nothing, and that she had better
have gone to church on a Sunday evening, like
Miss Kate ;  and I, for one, shan't be sorry ! "

From which it will be seen that Coleman was
vindictive, as well as sharp-eyed and discriminating.
Perhaps it might have been well, however,
if Marjorie had heard her ;  not that she

was what could be called in love with Evelyn :
she was not, she would have told you, thinking
of love at all ; it was only that Lord Fairlight
was tiresomely heavy company when Eupert
was making fun at the other end of the room,
and that she could not keep herself from wondering
what he could find to make him stays so
long with Kate, when she could not get at him
for all the Dicky and Harry by whom she
was surrounded, and that Cecy Barrington had
grown of late to be a perfect pest, unless, indeed,
her " brother " were looking on to see her fooling
him.

As long as Eupert would stand by, and shake
his head at her, and whisper his sly allusion
afterwards, she had no objection to talk with
the best or the worst of them,  she enjoyed
nothing more than keeping up the ball of badinage
and compliment, showing thus, as she hoped,
her power and her prestige ; but as soon as she
missed a certain tall figure from the circle, everything
fell flat.

More especially did the jest become stale if
she suspected, as was not unfrequently the case,
that Rupert had found his way to her sister.
It seemed as if it were only in these crowded

assemblies that he had anything to say to Kate ;
he seldom, if ever, addressed her if there were
only a few present ; and if he joined the two
girls, and no one else were by, Marjorie was
sure of having him to herself. She never
thought of observing, as Coleman did, where
his eyes strayed to. Had she been asked, she
would probably have said that they were often-est
on the ground ; but unless she turned right
round, how could she tell, when he usually took
up his post somewhere behind her? But she
did notice that when their handsome cavalier
accompanied the party to balls and receptions,
he was almost always to be found in the vicinity
of her sister Kate ; and whether this were by
accident or design, remained yet to be seen.

She did not altogether like it ; she had never
quite forgotten that look of his when first  as
all believed  he had been brought into contact
with Kate ; and what it meant, she had not
been able to decipher. Probably admiration, 
certainly admiration,  but was anything else
included, and had the feeling died out subsequently,
or did it still remain ? The latter was
the chief point. Both sisters were included in
Rupert's brotherly attentions ; he danced with

'

both, and gave to both gifts and bouquets ; but
he spoke to the elder with a gravity and brevity
that contrasted curiously with his easy tones
when addressing the younger,  and one day it
occurred to Miss Pert to tax him with beings
afraid of the ex-virago.

He turned on his heel, and would not answer
her. Marjorie took a little more care after that
experiment, and confined her attention to her
own affairs,  which, indeed, were always to her
of paramount interest. She was so full of herself,
and of this phase of her existence, that, out
of sheer simplicity, she let every one into the
secret. You could not be with her ten minutes
ere she had given you her confidence,  had
shown the end, and aim, and object of her life,
by every tone and attitude.

To hear her talk was to marvel at her aptness
and her presumption. London was everything,
Carnochan was nothing. None would have
dreamed of the seventeen years passed, almost
entirely, in a retired country-house,  she might,
she must have been cradled in the hotbed in
which she was now ripening with such precocious
and amazing celerity.

The jargon of the place,  its ways, manners

and customs,  were by this time as completely
hers as they had ever been her step-mother's ;
and indeed, whereas she had at first leaned with
the utmost docility on that guiding hand, it was
she who now instructed Lady Olivia.

"Fashions change," she would say, with a
toss of the saucy head, if any demur were made
to a whim or proposal,  " fashions change, ma
chere mere; and things are done now that would
have been thought very bad a dozen years
ago."

"half-a-dozen!" the chere mere would eagerly
interpose at this,  ** half-a-dozen, my dear child :
you forget ; and really "

'And really it makes no difference. Who
cares now what was the mode half-a-dozen years
ago 1 Things are out of date one season that
were in full swing the last."

She was so young, so strong, so positive, that
weaker vessels were inevitably borne down.
Besides, what could they say 1 Asides she
ignored, scruples she laughed at. Admire
her, agree with her, give her her own way, and
all went well enough ; but she could not endure
indifference or the secret smile : and thus it
came to pass that occasionally, in the presence

of her brother, she was irritable and suspicious.
This sort of thing went on sometimes.

I don't think I shall go to-night."

Indeed ? " said Evelyn. '' Why not ? "

Oh, I don't know. It's a bore."

A bore, is it ? Hum ! Fairlight not to be
there r'

"Fairlight! Nonsense!"

 Or Charlie Nepean?"

"Pooh! Charlie Nepean I "

Or Teddy Tempest ? Or Cecy Barrington ? "

A pout.

"That's odd. What can have become of
them all?"

Nothing that I know of."

Why are they not going to the ball ? "

They are going  every one of them ; you'll
see them all as large as life,  or rather, you
won't see them, as you have gone and engaged
yourself to that tiresome dinner to that tiresome
old general. What you can see in it to attract
you, I am sure I can't imagine ! Soups, and
fishes, and roast-beefs ! " with a shudder.

** Good girl, Marjorie," said Eupert, approvingly.
" Always put the right thing in the
right place,  food first, company afterwards."

Company ? Oh, sir, you would have me
believe it is for the company you go, would
you ? I admire your taste. It makes one hotter
than one was before to think of all the horrid
red coats."

There won't be any red coats at the ball, I
presume ? "

"I tell you I am not going to the ball. I
said so before."

*rand what, then, does your royal highness
propose to do with yourself, if one may presume
to inquire ? '

*' Nothing. At least,  oh, I daresay I  I
shall go with Kate to the Charles Newbattles."

Oh, really ? Happy Walter ! "

Rupert," pettishly,  'rupert, for shame!
What a teaze you are ! I declare I never met
with such a teaze. Why will you not let one
alone *? I do believe you like to say provoking
things. Can't you even leave out poor Walter?"
with a sigh.

'' It appears you can't, Madge."

How can you say such things ? You always
speak in that way to me, as if you thought "

Come, come, come," from Lady Olivia.
Eupert ! Marjorie ! What is all this about ?

Silly people, to quarrel for no reason ! Marjorie,
what time is the carriage to be ordered for tonight?"


Marjorie is not going to-night, ma'am."

Not going ! "

She prefers a quiet tea with her picture, and
her painter, and the rest of the family ; after
which she will proceed to the studio "

"What nonsense is this 1 " Lady Olivia's
brow wore the frown that had almost grown
obsolete. "Marjorie will do nothing of the
kind ; I could not permit such a thing for a
moment. It is different for Kate, who knows
what is due to her, and can take care of herself
"

"So can I, mamma."

So can not you, my dear ; and I should not
think "

She did not mean what she said," interposed
Evelyn, to keep the peace. " She no more intended
to lose the grandest ball of the season
than to throw her best frock into the fire. Well,
perhaps I may drop in for a little and see how
you are getting on, Madge." And he brought
her a bouquet presently, which quite reconciled
her to the martyrdom.

No one was allowed to hold her flowers at anytime
that evening ; and they were in water on
the drawing-room table when he came next day.

Well," he said, " how did you and Teddy get
on? That was a smart little corner you had
chosen. Miss Chamberlain wanted it awfully,
but she had to give up the ghost of a hope at
last."

He might say so if he chose ; and so far from
being called a teaze this time, his companion, all
smiles, could make quite merry over Miss Chamberlain's
discomfiture.

Do you know what I heard last night ? "
proceeded Evelyn. 'that the eldest Miss
Newbattle was the best hand at talking, and at
flirting, and at kicking up her heels generally, of
any of the beauties going I "

Kate ! " exclaimed Marjorie.

*' Whom else could the eldest Miss Newbattle
mean 1 "

Oh, I see. But, Eupert, do I really look the
eldest 1 Should you take me for the eldest ? How
very odd ! I always said that was what people
would think, because I am fatter and taller, but
I never really thought it. Why, Kate is nearly
three-and-twenty, and I am not eighteen ! "

Her tone of mortification was diverting. There
was no attempt to suppress it ; the more she
had been made of, the more had her appetite for
adulation increased, and the more unreserved had
she become in its display. An implied tribute to
her sister, at ever so slight an expense to herself,
was not to be borne,  and there having
been such a tribute in the present instance, was
doubly objectionable, coming through the channel
it did. She could not, however, get any satisfaction
out of Rupert. He put her ofi" with jests
and nonsense, and she was unable to discover
whether he thought the reputation she had won
worth the having or not.

*' I can't help it, you know," she said, plaintively.
"I do mean to be good, Rupert, but
they won't let me. As soon as I have got rid of
one of them, another comes up "

It's hard lines, isn't it ? "

And you, who could help me, so often refuse
to go with us now ! "

"Well, I do, Marjorie ; the fact is, I couldn't
stand it. I go as much as  as your sister does,
but you are beyond me. I did my London
when I was a boy "

"A boy, indeed !  a boy ! "

"I began when I was not much older than
you, and had ten years of it ; and when one
has once had a surfeit, it is not easy to take toit
again. Furthermore, it's a  a useless life. If
you were not here," reflectively, "I should be
ofl" tomorrow."

Pray don't let me keep you."

He smiled the bitter-sweet smile that had made
Pollaxfen's ears tingle, and it made Marjorie's
now. She bit her lip ; but, to be sure, how
should she suppose that " you " so spoken could
mean anything but " you" singular and personal?

This sort of thing is very well for a week
or two," continued Evelyn, presently. " But I
wonder that even a girl in her first season is not
tired of it before it is half over."

Tired of it ! " cried Marjorie. " Tired of it !
Oh, Rupert, I only wish it would never end ! "

'' My dear girl ! "

I do indeed. I should like to go on as we are
doing now, for ever and ever. Of course I should.
There ! Say what you like to me. And so would
half the girls we meet, if they dared to tell the
truth. We don't want any other heaven "

Stop that ! Think what you are saying."

'' You need not scowl at me, then," Marjorie

recoiled a little. " You should rather be pleased
with me for not being hypocritical. After all
you said about honesty and truth the other day
too, I might have expected to have had one
person to whom I might tell out what I thought,
without having a face made at me."

* It was not your saying, so much as your
thinking "

"What? That London is better than

Heaven 1 It is to me, a long way. I should
prefer it, I know, if I were given the choice, 
and so would heaps of others. I hardly know
one who wouldn't  except Kate."

'did it ever occur to you," said Evelyn,
slowly, "to try to be like Kate?"

No, my dear sage adviser, it certainly never
did occur to me ; and for two very sapient reasons
 namely, first, because I could not if I
would ; and second, because I would not if I
could." And she made a money intimating that
the question was disposed of.

"She is different from all her sisters," continued
Evelyn, without looking at his companion
; " she has had the same home, the
same up-bringing, the same surroundings, and
yet "

-" Go on ; ' and yet what ? ' "

He picked up a book wliicli had fallen, rose,
and walked to the window.

And yet what % " persisted Marjorie, following.
"What disagreeable thing are you going
to come out with next, Mr Mentor *? You mayas
well say it, now that you have got so far."

He took her hand. She was mute with
astonishment at his look and manner. ''My
dear," said the young man, very seriously.
'' You said a fearful thing just now. You proclaimed
yourself readily, openly, unnecessarily,
on the devil's side. You flaunted his colours
in my face, and called on me to admire your
honesty. If ever a poor girl had need of  of
repentance, and of seeking forgiveness on her
knees, you have to-day, Marjorie."

Marjorie began to cry. " I think you are very
unkind," she said. " You know that I am not one
of your over-saintly people  that I don't stop to
think over every single word; and then you
take me up like that, and frighten me till I
don't know what I am saying ! "

I am sure you did not know what you were
saying,  but I am afraid you meant it, all the
same."

Of course I meant it. That is to say, I
meant it at  at the time ; I don't mean it 
always. But I do hate those very precise
parsonical persons. And still worse, the others
who are as fond of going about as I am, but
draw up their lips, and look as mild and meek
as possible, whenever there is any one by to be
shocked."

They are hypocrites. No, don't copy them."

Who am I to copy ? "

He opened his lips twice to speak, but got no
further ; it seemed as if the answer stuck in his
throat.

There now ! " said Marjorie, triumphantly.
I thought you did not know what you were
talking about''

' I know," said Evelyn, with a hurried look
and manner, that bespoke mental disturbance
" I know well enough. But I can't explain.
It is not for me, Heaven knows, to instruct.
Go to your sister ; ask her."

"That was what you meant when you said
she was different?"

Yes."

Marjorie had to swallow this as best she
might. A few tears of real vexation did her

no harm with Evelyn, who, although he partly
suspected their source, only felt that to see a
woman cry was what he never could endure ;
and afterwards he was thanked  touchingly
thanked  for having cared so much about a silly
girl as to talk to her for her good ; and he was
begged not to mind her having been cross, but
to tell her all her faults in future, and to help
her to amend,  aid it was all so prettily put,
and the clasped hands were so pathetic, and
the violet eyes so large, that what could a poor
fellow do but pat her on the shoulder, and tell
her to be a good girl, and bid her take care incase
somebody should come in and find out
that there had been a scene 1

Marjorie thought that she would not mind,
supposing some one did. She rather liked the
idea of being asked what had been the matter ?
She hopped up-stairs presently, and ran to her
glass to see how she had looked through it all ;
and finding that she had never been in better
face, so to speak, began to sing, and to think
that she would not be long before she needed
just such an another admonitory interview.

It was so nice to be lectured by a man like
Rupert, and to feel that in spite of the unpleasant

things he managed to say every now and
then, she had only to be a little penitent and
soft to bring him round again.

All that afternoon she kept up the farce.

It was she who was grave and silent when
Evelyn came up to have a chat with the two
girls, as their little low carriage drew up under
the shade in the Park that afternoon. Lady
Olivia was at home nursing a headache ; and
accordingly the sisters were alone, and sat
side by side, followed by admiring glances
whichever way their horses turned. At length
the carriage came to a stand still, and Ku-pert
found them out, and came and stood
talking.

But he could not succeed in making Marjorie
at all cheerful. She was on the farthest side
from him, and she kept her head steadily turned
that way, with a pulled-down, doleful, drooping
air, that was intended effectually to dispel
the last grains of severity in his cruel spirit.

Kate, on the contrary, was, as it fell out, in
one of her brilliant moods. What had caused
it, or what she was thinking of, she did not disclose
; but in her flushed cheek, her eye, her whole
looks and manner, there was a certain exaltation,

VOL. in. H

a life, that at length drew her quondam lover's
attention towards her so closely, that he had
none to spare for any one else. He could not
bear to see Kate excited now. All Pollard
dreadful insinuations could be recalled
at any moment by an agitated air or impetuous
accent. That she was at the present time
in health, and that for some years past no
anxiety on her account had been felt, he was
aware; but the tidings of her renewed illness
subsequent to the wedding, and the frequency
of Lady Olivia's protestations that she remained
at Carnochan herself purely "on our dear
Kate's account," had seemed absolute confirmation
of all that had been said.

He knew that his mother could be reticent
and plausible even to himself. She might,
and very properly too, choose not to take him
into a confidence which it would be desirable
in every way to limit ; and her having gone
so far as to allow that it was a matter of health
at the first, was good proof that she could not
adduce any other grounds.

Afterwards, of course, there had been deaths
and mourning to account for seclusion ; but
nevertheless, he could perceive that even at

this date they did not care to thwart or disturb
their impulsive, warm - blooded beauty,
and he drew his own inferences.

How that eloquent eye and mobile lip had
once delighted him ! Now he durst not look
on them.

It startled him to see her so amusing and bewitching.
What was there all at once to exhilarate !

He began to watch, painfully, jealously.

In spite of the carriage-door being thus usurped,
however, a knot of adorers pressed round
where the youthful belles sat,  some merely
standing about, resolved to show to the world,
if they could do no more, that they were of
the party  others, more lucky, chatting briskly
and continuously, racking their brains in order
to keep pace with the clever Miss Newbattle,
who was 'in a jolly humour'' that afternoon,
but who was not always to be depended on for
not ' snapping a fellow up short."

Accordingly, they made hay while the sun
shone, to Evelyn's wrath, and to the no small
displeasure of some one else besides.

The flashes of fun and laughter made Marjorie
on the other side presently exchange her imaginary
pensiveness for a genuine fit of the sulks,

since she was not in the field, and since it
appeared that she was to be let alone if she
chose. Her large white parasol was brought
down in front of her face resolutely ; and she
had a word for no one, as she reflected that
Kate had no business to be so gay, when she
was really dull and out of spirits.

For Kate was gay  very gay. Indeed, something
had happened shortly before which had
pleased her much ; something which had caused
a glow of generous warmth to a heart that but
seldom had a chance of exercising its best impulses,
and something which she would have
asserted was as unconnected with herself  with
her hopeless love and its anxieties  as anything
could possibly be. Yet why, then, that
peculiar pleasure, that secret uplifting of the
heart ? Are they usually caused by the mere
contemplation of a benevolent action ?

Oft in the passions' wild rotation tost,
Our spring of actions to ourselves is lost ; 
As the last image of that troubled heap,
When sense subsides and fancy sports in sleep
(Tho' passed the recollection of the thought),
Becomes the stuff of which our dream is wrought,
Something as dim to our internal view,
Is thus perhaps the cause of most we do."

Dim indeed, and altogether unsuspected, was

the cause in the present instance ; but while
Kate was happy in her ignorance, Evelyn was
miserable in his. Anguish and admiration increased
every moment as he listened to her
voice, and stole glances at her radiant countenance.
He had better have gone away. In
that very "eye of fire'' lay one great source of
her attraction for him,  those varying moods
enthralled one who was uniformly moderate
in his views and equable in his temper. He
was cool, and he liked heat. He could not,
to his mind, ever behold Kate to greater advantage
than when roused and stimulated beyond
what she was herself aware of,  and then,
by whom or what, it did not materially signify.
But Zounds I it must be by something !

Let there be some apparent, palpable spring
from which effervescence, whether mirthful or
the reverse, might proceed, and he could serenely
enjoy the overflow ; but a flood of merriment,
of provoking badinage, and captivating glances,
and nothing to account for it 1  Pah I it was
not like Kate to care for fooling puppies.

Things were going too far, and somewhat
arbitrarily he resolved to put a stop to the
whole.

Miss Newbattle had placed her hand for a
moment on the low side of the carriage, close
to where Captain Evelyn leaned over ; he moved
a pace nearer her,  in order, apparently, to
permit an acquaintance of Marjorie's to see
what he could do towards restoring that sad-visaged
young lady's complacency  and finding
the hand within reach, covered it with his own.

''I think you are staying out too long," he
said, bending so far forward as to conceal the
action, and speaking with such a decided lowering
of the voice that the other men involuntarily
fell back a little. " The sun is very hot,
and you look overdone, flushed, excited. Go
home, Kate,  go home and rest."

Her face showed its amazement.

"These friends of yours would tear me in
pieces if they knew what I was saying," continued
Evelyn in the same undertone; "but you
know, you know, Kate, that your health is not
to be trifled with. May I give the order ? "

Oh yes. You are very kind ; but really we
have not been out long, and  and I am afraid
poor Marjorie will not thank you."

"I am going to get you to take your sister
home," said Evelyn, making Marjorie stoop

forward to hear what he said. "This din of
people's tongues is too much for her, and these
fellows will not let her alone."

All this time his hand lay heavily on Kate's.

Oh, very well ; but," said Marjorie determinedly,
" I shall just take Kate in, and come
back myself / had nothing to do with the
din, I am sure ; and whatever Kate may do, I
am not going to sit stuffing indoors on this
glorious afternoon. You may expect to see me
back in half an hour, Captain Evelyn,  though
I daresay you would think me better employed
in reading good books at home. Perhaps, if
you refrain from saying so, I may condescend
to pick you up, and take you for a turn yourself,"
relenting, as the idea occurred to her. It
would be rather nice to drive up and down
with Rupert, and set people talking.

Kate started at the words. She had been
only half grieved at being sent away before ;
it was so kind of Eupert, and he had held her
hand in such a grip, and looked so grim upon
the subject, that a little flutter had crept over
her at being the object of such solicitude,  but
now a horrible suspicion crept in.

What did Marjorie mean ? Was that what it

all had been done for 1 To get rid of her, and
give her no choice in the matter '? Was it possible
that Eupert could stoop to make pretences
for his ends ? Alas ! she must always feel that
Eupert had been once unworthy. Then, indeed,
it had been for her sake; but now  the hotblood
burned her cheek as she told herself that
his anxiety had been affectation, and his significant
grasp a mere conveying of his resolution
to have his will.

For after all, it was nonsense. She had never
felt better in her life ; she was really enjoying
the sunshine and the gay scene, perhaps a little
also the homage and the flattery,  and why
should he so suddenly have taken it into his
head that they were unfit for her ? Why, but
because she was wanted out of the way, and
no other pretext for dismissing her was at
hand 1 When she had been thus easily disposed
of, the two would take their fill of the
summer air, and each other's smiles. The
pleasantness hour of the day was drawing on ;
and here was she, who loved the open air so
niuch, condemned to her little stifling room, 
forced to accept professions of affectionate considerateness,
which were but a mockery, and

a mockery so shallow, that the artifice could
impose on no one.

Yet to resist could not be thought of. They
should have it as they would.

And when, by-and-by, the two came in together,
 Marjorie looking brighter than she had
done all day ; Eupert rather grave, but only becomingly
so  only silent, as a man should be
whose being is awakening to a new life under
the electric shocks of a. woman's glances,  the
whole seemed only too plain.

She marvelled at her blindness in not having
foreseen what would so surely happen.

And how about the future,  about that very
evening, for instance ? They had all been going
to a concert  not a large affair, but one of those
little chamber-concerts which were pleasant, if
not extraordinarily superior, and which Kate
liked well enough. Eupert had promised to
come to dinner and join the party.

Could she go or not ? An insane desire consumed
her to go and see the worst, make sure that
fancy should never again have room for hope, or

else oh, she could hardly dare to think that

the afternoon's vision might even yet be dispelled !

Should she not decide to go 1 It appeared

that she had no need to decide on anything 
the point was settled for her. Her breath came
short and brokenly as she was told of their
having negatived the idea before she came down
to dinner, and her eyes shone with a gleam of
defiance and momentary passion, which spoke
daggers to Evelyn's heart. Yet she did not
rebel, even while inwardly most indignant.

What had she done to be treated so "? Why
should such deceit and trickery be needed 1
Why could they not say, or at least openly
show, " We wish to be alone, and your presence
is superfluous " ?

Had she ever once, by word or sign, betrayed
to any one that passage in her life which he had
wished forgotten ? Had she herself once reminded
him of it? Put herself in his way?
Never,  never !

She had rather shunned him than otherwise,
unobtrusively, plausibly; always having an
excellent excuse for being absent at the times he
was most likely to be there, but accomplishing
her purpose so sensibly and cleverly, that even
he had not been able to find it out.

There was no flying out of the room if left
alone by chance with him : on the contrary.

there was always a vast flow of talk, indomitably
pursued, without intermission, and apparently
only waiting for such a chance to have its
tap turned on ; and when the door opened again,
they were found thus entertaining each other, by
any one who chose to come in.

On Sunday evenings he had once or twice
walked with her to church, and on one occasion
they had had but one prayer-book between them,
that was to say, she had hers. What did it
matter? The places were looked out and the
book held towards him again and again. Afterwards
he shawled her up, and she had accepted
his arm down some dark steps in the entry.
She had made no demur to anything, accepting
strictly the position he had laid down as the
one he wished her to take up ; and now she
thought that she should not have been treated
as he and Marjorie were treating her.

She was so proudly conscious of having done
her part, that her spirit rose at their  or rather
his injustice.

*'He need not be afraid," she said, bitterly.
*' He might have trusted me. But I shall yet
show him that I am to be trusted, even as I
was once  beloved."

And then she sat down and wrote a letter,
which, had its contents been explained to Captain
Evelyn, might have altered the aspect of
affairs  or it might not, for there is no driving
an idea out of the head of a man when once it
has been driven in.

Still it was a pity he had not the chance,
more especially as the effect of Marjorie's dewdrops
in the afternoon tableau had not been
precisely what she had imagined. He had been
sharper than she thought. He had noted how
speedy was the skin-deep repentance, how immediate
the trite responses, how paltry the
pretence ! She had thought to gull him, and
he had not found it worth his while to undeceive
her ; but she had not seen his smile as
she ran away.

He had felt rather sorry on the whole. It
was a pity, he had said to himself, that she
should be so poor a creature, so emphatically
the result of Lady Olivia's training and the
world's spoiling; but whilst summing up the
whole into a shrug of contempt and the inward
observation, " Girl of the period," he soon found
himself far away in spirit from the little London
street, the summer sun, and the flies buzzing in

the window-panes, taking part in another scene,
in which, with another pupil, he had played the
teacher.

How infinitely more satisfactory had the task
been then !

It had taken a full hour to bring the refractory
Kate to reason, as they sat by the sea-shore
under the moaning cliffs, on that occasion when
she had first poured into his astonished ear her
version of her wrongs.

He had been absolutely dumb during the recital,
confounded, and ill at ease, as he listened
to the impetuous torrent of words. She had
wrung her little hands together as she spoke,
and he had wished to goodness she would be
less vehement and more docile !

Afterwards he had given it her roundly, not
mincing matters, but dealing out one home truth
after another with a valour that was creditable,
all things considered, and which had certainly
surprised himself quite as much as it had dismayed
his auditor.

How she had winced and swerved beneath his
blows ! What starts of pain she had been betrayed
into, whenever a shaft more than usually
pointed cut into her quivering heart !

Every charge he had found against her had, it
is true, been repelled with energy ; and excuses,
as well as counter-accusations, had been brought
forward with all a woman's volubility ; but that
she was suffering under the ordeal, she had not
been able to hide.

All the while he had marked her panting
breath and heaving bosom. He had thought
her on the point of breaking down over andover
again, and had been half savage, half
charmed with the dogged obstinacy which he
could not overcome. Her indomitable spirit
had refused to be mastered while an inch of
ground remained on which she could take her
stand. Whilst she had had a word to say for
herself, she had said it a dozen times, persevering
in the repetition till he was sick of the
phrase,  and then all at once she had given
way, bowed her head, and buried her face in
her hands.

He beheld the moment, and felt his triumph
over again.

It had been something indeed to have wrought
that exquisite result; it had been worth anyone's
while to have probed the wound which
could thus yield up its poison.

No falsehood here ; no ready, glib acquiescence,
and closing of the interview with a tripping
step and a mock sigh. No simpering surface
spread over the little scar, which was after
all a mere nothing.

Not so, indeed. The demon within, sullen
and resisting to the last, had been hard to kill,
even when bruised from neck to heel ; but, once
slain, there had been no resurrection, and the
death-struggle had left wounds never wholly to
be effaced.

Oh how sweet Kate had seemed to him after
that!   * *

The door opens, and he passes her on the
threshold without a word.

CHAPTEK XXXI.

OVER-IMPULSIVE, MISS KATE

))

Despatch thy purpos'd good : quick courteous deeds
Cause thanks ; slow favour, men unthankful breeds."

Translation from Ausonius.

Kate's letter was to Maxwell, the lawyer, and
Maxwell said, " Heyday ! what's this ? " as he
caught the drift of it ; after which he knitted
his brows, put out his lips, and appeared to reflect
deeply.

It's true," he said, " that they did her a service,
and that she owes them some return. I
recollect all about it  ay, ay ; I recollect very
well, and undoubtedly she owes them some return.
But a return like this is  is not to be
made in a hurry. Five hundred pounds ! Hum !
And she demands it as coolly as though it
were five hundred pence, and she could take me
by the throat, and make me pay, or hand me

over to the tormentors. Impulsive, over impulsive,
Miss Kate. The wild Newbattle blood
getting the upper hand again, as it aye did with
one or another of the race. Talks of obligation ?
Hoots ! An obligation is one thing, and five
hundred pounds is another ! ' Cousin Charles
approves ? ' Like enough. Cousin Charles thinks
he may stand in want of five hundred pounds
himself some of these days. And Mr Macula
refers her to me ? Very good, Andrew
MaccuUoch ; very good. I'm to have your sins
on my shoulders as well as my own, am I ?
That's it, is it ? Hum ! ha ! But Pollaxfen,"
with sudden briskness,  'say, Pollaxfen I There's
the scratch ! What will Pollaxfen say 1 Hang
me, if I'm not inclined to give the business
a push, just to see how the meddlesome, cantankerous,
sheep-faced body would take it I
Set him up for a trustee ! Had I ever had a
glisk at yon time, of things turning out as
they have done, I would have seen Pollaxfen
at the bottom of the ocean before I would
have given my voice for putting in his name !
But who could have foreseen if? I made assure
of an heir before the year was out as
ever I did in the old laird's time. They've

VOL. III. I

cheated me,  cheated me ; that's what they've
done.

And now here's this bit lassie rules the roost,
and we must all do her bidding ! Five hundred
pounds ! Oo, we can raise it easy enough, if it's
desirable ; but it's just that, that I'm not so
clear of. What if it should be only a beginning
the first chink of the door opening to destruction
? If she find it's plain sailing this time,
she'll be at it again before we can look about
us,  or I know nothing of womankind.

It'll be a thousand, next time. Whew !
That would be no joke, once that sort of correspondence
sets in ; the property will not stand
that, my bonnie lady : London too, and all the
hats and bonnets to be paid for,  she doesn't
reckon them in yet, and still she's short of
money ! And though you are but a single
woman the now. Miss Kate, there's maybe a
wedding to follow, and sons and daughters all to
be provided for, unless  unless "  with a gleam
in the grey eye  " there should be a grandson
of Walter Maxwell's own, one day, laird of
Carnochan." For Bertha had at this time a
baby boy; and who could say to what a destiny
that favoured infant might not be born ?

Well, there's one thing, however," concluded
the old gentleman ; " we can do nothing without
Pollaxfen,  and I'm very much mistaken if
Pollaxfen will allow us to touch a stiver."

Two days before Mr Maxwell was thus called
upon to ruminate, his fair correspondent had
fallen in with Evelyn's old acquaintance, Brewster
of Castle Kenrick, who, on Kate's inquiring
after his tenants at the Muirland Farm, had
informed her that the poor folks where in great
trouble, having lost the greater portion of their
stock during the cattle-plague, which had visited
the district severely. He had done all that he
could, Brewster had averred ; but he had other
tenants in equal distress, and he had found
it beyond his power to set them all on their
leojs aoain.

Having just come from Castle Kenrick, the
young laird was full of the subject ; immensely
pleased to find some who could and would listen
to him, and who had an interest in it  Kate
having mentioned enough of her connection with
the Comlines to justify hers.

The paltry jargon of the hour was strange
and distasteful to a simple sportsman such as
Brewster : what did he care, he wondered, for

the squalling of an Italian puppy, or the tricks
of a French ape ? He had heard of no mortal
thing but the tenor and the conjuror since coming
up ; he had gone to a seance, and had seen
how everything was done,  by Jove, he had !
Seen all through it at once, ropes and pulleys
and everything,  and had just missed having
both his eyes knocked out, by one of those confounded
tambourine coming at him full swing !
He would take precious good care not to be let
in for that sort of fooling again,  and as for the
quaker, he might squawk himself hoarse before
he went near his place a second time.

Such were his internal reflections.

How delightful, then, to find some one who
would talk of Castle Kenrick, and the old hills
of Galloway ! He brightened into positive
intelligence over the subject. Yes, the poor
Comlines ; the best souls in the world ; he was
really awfully sorry for them ; he did not know
what was to be done. Of course he had cut
down their rent  he had cut it down more than
one-half; but when a fellow has four or five
such farms on his land, and not one of them can
raise a sixpence, what can one say ?

Mr Brewster'' said Kate, at this point,

** you have done your part, now it is for me todo
mine. How I am indebted to these good
people, I have explained to you ; and that debt
never has  never can be paid off. But in one
way  as regards  as regards money, my father
did wish to  to offer them a suitable remuneration,
and he could not prevail on them to
accept anything. Literally, they would take
nothing but a trumpery silver teapot. How
glad I am that at last it is in my power to do
them a service, if only to show that they are not
forgotten  never will be forgotten. You must,
if you please, give me your advice. I am rich,
you know, and can afford to be bountiful ; what
shall it be -? "

Eh ? " said Brewster, staring a little. " Ton
my word, you are very good. It will be a great
thing for the poor folks if you will really send
'em a trifle. But don't bother yourself, you
know,  for, of course, you have lots of claims,
and all that sort of thing. Think it over, and
well have another talk by-and-by."

'* No, indeed," replied Kate, laughing. " By-and-by
does not suit me at all. And I detest
thinking things over. This must be done at
once ; and it is the most fortunate thin in the

world my meeting you as I have done ; if you
will not mind giving me a little more of your
attention '

'* Oh, you know' said Brewster, who, country
lout as he was, understood that he was talking
to the finest woman in the room. " Oh, you
know," he said, and smiled deprecatingly. *' It's
you, you know "

What I want to be told is, how shall

it be done ? Through you ? "

"No, no ; that would never do."

And I could not send it anonymously, as I
should like them to know it came because I looked
on them as my friends "

"To say nothing of having to sign the
cheque."

Oh, to be sure, the cheque ; I had forgotten
that. But what is the cheque to be for ?
Do help me. Do say." She was on fire
with eagerness, and he would have given something
to have had a respite wherein to collect
his wits, and consider what answer he should
give.

What for ? Eh ? I suppose you mean how
much ? Hum ! Well, perhaps fifty pounds, 
but, upon my word, it's a shame to trouble you.

I ought not to have said anything about it ; Fm
really "

* Don't. But fifty," said Miss Newbattle,
doubtfully. "That is very little. I am sure
you could not have meant fifty; you must have
meant one or two hundreds, at least. What
could fifty do towards restocking a farm '? "

"Oh, nothing whatever. A good Galloway
bull costs that."

'* Mr Comline's prize bull," said Kate ; " how
proud he was of him ! * Chairlie,' do you remember
? When I was there, ' Chairlie ' was
his favourite theme."

** Oh, you were at the farm in ' Chairlie's '
time ! No, certainly, poor Comline may whistle
for another such animal. He has never had
as fine a one since,  and now he has none at
all."

'rand you knew that, and yet told me to
send him a paltry fifty pounds ! For shame,
Mr Brewster ! you have been trifling with me.
You think that I am not in earnest, and that I
am merely playing at being benevolent; you
think that I do not know what I am talking
about, and that I am to be put off with anything
you can suggest to ease my conscience ;

and you think that it is no matter to me, so

long as I am kept in the dark. You think "

*' Oh, by Jove, I never thought as much as all
that in my life ! " cried poor Brewster, overwhelmed
at the extent of his imputed treachery.
* 111  m say anything you like, you know, if

you really want me to do it, but "

'' Would a thousand do ? "
A thousand ! Bless my life ! "
I wish," said Kate, emphatically, ''to do my
kind old friends a real service, not merely to
make them a gift which is insignificant to them
and unworthy of me. Can I not make you understand
that '? "

Well, but you know, a thousand ! Come  a
thousand 1 "

Would a thousand stock the farm ? "
'rather; five hundred would do all they
want, for that matter  for they have some three
hundred pounds' worth still in hand. But
really," said Brewster, with honest trepidation,
you make me feel ashamed. And you must
take care too, Miss Newbattle,  upon my word
you must,  or you'll get yourself into a mess.
And then "  in despair  '' people will say I had
a hand in it, you know."

No, they won't ; we'll not give them the
chance," said Kate, in high glee. " Now I have
found out at last what I am to do, and the rest
is easy enough. Five hundred pounds. Perhaps
I had better say only that, although I
should have liked a thousand better. But
there's Mr Maxwell ; he keeps us all in order ;
I shall write to him tomorrow "

"Maxwell of Guthrie?"

*' No ; Mr Maxwell, our lawyer. He manages
everything for us really, though he goes through
the form of asking my trustees''

'' I say, trustees ! Don't let us get into a
scrape. Miss Newbattle."

But Miss Newbattle expressed her scorn for
scrapes, and drove down to Fitzroy Square the
next day, beginning, as wise people do, with that
which is least. Cousin Charles's opposition to
anything she wished, would be, she knew, a
mere bagatelle ; and so it proved. Probably,
as Mr Maxwell said. Cousin Charles felt ruefully
that such another good turn would have been
only too welcome to himself Perhaps, poor
over - burdened wretch, he would not have
minded then and there having had a note
slipped into his fingers. At any rate, he

had agreed, willingly, approvingly. And then
it had been Mr Macculloch's turn, who, with
his weather-eye well open to contingencies,
cautiously shifted the burden on to the lawyer's
shoulders.

He would not oppose ; his consent should be
forthcoming if Maxwell asked for it. But he
would do no more.

All had, however, been so far satisfactory,
that, fresh from the scene of action, the youthful
victor went joyously to her drive, radiant
and beaming with an inner spring of elation
at her success, joined to pure, unselfish pleasure
in her enterprise. Her letter, however, which
was not written until after she had entered into
the cloud which succeeded to that burst of sunshine,
was very different to what it would have
been had she sat down to the desk an hour or
two before.

It was rather short, and very explicit.

Maxwell, we know, considered it cool. He
took no offence ; there was no disrespect to him.
He merely felt that too little was made of the
whole thing. Miss Newbattle wanted the money,
and begged him to see that she got it ; one trustee
had consented, the other would not oppose.

and she had not asked the third. Would he be
so good as do this for her, as she would prefer
having Mr Pollaxfen applied to through him ?

"Ay, ay, that's gey and plain to be read,"
quoth the shrewd Scot. "That I can understand.
She steps daintily over the wee puddles,
and gives me the river to jump. Tm to tackle
Pollaxfen, am 11 So, so ; I must see what can
be done. I have not had a good bout with
Pollaxfen since the last timber business; I
doubt this will stir him up still more merrily,
ha, ha, ha ! It's something to have the
chance of another upturn with that piece of
mincemeat,  and so, if it were only that you
hate him as much as I do, my bonnie Kate,
ni do your bidding."

But when the worthy gentleman had signed
and sealed his note, he leaned back in his chair
thoughtfully.

"What I can't see," he said, half aloud 
what I can't make out, one way or another,
is, what the devil it can matter to Pollaxfen ?
What business is it of his ? He behaved himself
fairly enough about the settlements, a
wee thing snack, but nothing to speak of
nothing to speak of. And now, now that it

is all over with him, that he has nothing
more to gain, nor yet to lose, the very name
of Carnochan to him is like a red rag to a
bull I Can it be that he's sore about the want
of family, think you ? It may,  it may ; but
stop a bit, Tm not clear that that will account
for all the stramashes we have had together.
It's this objection, and that objection,  and he
must see this, and refer to that,  as if he set
himself teeth and nails to plague us all 1 Now,

if he had married Kate Ha ! "  a pause.

'* Married Kate," repeated Maxwell, his tone
rising and his eye glittering, as though he
had caught the glimpse of an idea which was
seeking to elude him. " And why did he not
marry her ? Alice was nothing compared with
her sister. The property 1 Tootle  tootle 
too! He has money enough. Not but what
Pollaxfen's a man who would never despise
a five-pound note,  but still it's not in my
mind that it was the property. In that case
he would now let the property alone, wouldn't
he 1 Sure-ly. And why doesn't he then ?
And what for does he set himself to bother
Kate in everything she fancies ? And what
for does he never come near the place, if he

take such an interest in it? And why does
she ask me to apply to him now 1 Why am
I always asked to act as go-between whenever
anything's wanted ? Has she ever once gone
to him straight ? Never. Has she ever once
got her will without a wrangle 1 Never. Has
she ever spoken to him, or he to her, since
the day of her sister's death ? Never,  to my
knowledge at least. Now I know where I am ! "
cried he, kicking aside a footstool, and pacing
up and down the room in an agony of discovery.
Now I know where I am I Bless my soul,
what a fool I was not to think of that before ! "

He had now, at any rate, retrieved his character.


He had not guessed the whole truth  that
would have been too much to expect ; but he
had so far got upon the right scent, that while
presuming that Alice's hand had been sought
only after Kate's had been refused, he found
that solution of the problem met every exigency.

** And he'll not forgive her to the end of his
days ! " concluded Maxwell, chuckling and rubbing
his hands over his success. " Trust 
for that ! He has had an experience,
I take it. Ay, Kate's a vixen,  or was a

vixen  for the poor lassie's quiet enough nowadays
; that old harridan of a step - mother
takes care of that ! I wish Jezebel could get
an Ahab No. III. to quit us of her, before ever
she comes across the Tweed again,  that's what
I wish. I could manage the bairns ; and poor
Bertha would get asked something oftener to
her own old home than she does now. Height
! Well, we must bow to the decrees of
Providence. . So it's to be ? So be it.
. . And Kate gave it Pollaxfen hot, did
she ? I'll wager she did. And now she's got
to ask his leave for the use of her own money,
has she ? That goes against the proud stomach
of her, or I'm mistaken. Now that shows the
folly and shortsightedness of the sex. Up and
let their tongues fly, without an eye beyond
the present moment,  beyond the pleasure of
deafening a man with their clatter. Here's an
enemy made for life, with as small ado as though
he were a gnat brushed off with a pocket-handkerchief
I Not a thought that the gnat can
sting,  no, no ; that would be far beyond anyone
of them, least of all Miss Kate. Well, all
I can say is, the brows is of her own brewing,
if she like not the taste of it ! "

A few days afterwards, not without a certain
satisfaction in the fulfilment of his anticipations,
he sat down and penned the following : 

*dear Madam,  In accordance with your
desire, I have applied to your trustees, Mr
Andrew Macculloch, Mr Charles Newbattle,
and Mr Harold Pollaxfen, for permission to
raise on the Carnochan estate the sum of five
hundred pounds, to be handed over to you
for your own personal and private use, at this
present time. The answers I have received
this morning from Mr Andrew Macculloch
and Mr Charles Newbattle are favourable to
your request, but Mr Pollaxfen is of opinion
that no more funds should be raised off the *
estate for any purpose, and that the income
you annually derive from it is sufficient to
cover all necessary expenditure. I may add
that Mr Pollaxfen's letter is very decisive ;
but should you wish it, further application
can be made to him, together with a fresh
statement of the case, and any particulars
likely to make him reconsider his decision. 
Yours very faithfully,

Walter Maxwell."

A fresh statement ? " said Kate to herself,
when she came to that part of the letter. ** But
I have no fresh statement to make. I told him
all at the first; there is nothing more to be
said ; and if there were, it would make no difference.
Whatever I asked, it would be the
same. What shall I say ? I hardly thought
he could have refused me again,  and to refuse
such a small request ! How very odd Mr
Maxwell must think it ! Coming through him,
I thought that, for the mere look of the thing,
Harold would have been obliged to agree. Perhaps
"  with a bright idea  " perhaps, however,
I made a mistake in that. He may have been
angry about that very distinction between him
and the other trustees, supposing that he has
found out I asked them myself. Mr Maxwell
has let this out, I daresay. And that is just
what Harold would pounce upon, for he would
like to have me humble myself to him, and
have the power of saying ' Yes ' or  No ' to myself.
How I should hate doing it ! But if it
be the only way ''

Her hands were hot and trembling as, at last,
after many hours' conflict,  after fluctuations of
resolution, shrinking, and ups and downs innumerable

 shying at the leap as surely as ever
she resolved to take it,  she at last sat down
and wrote.

Yes, she would do it, cost her what it might.

She would write with propriety and dignity,
to ask as a personal favour that he would withdraw
his opposition ; and would, furthermore,
assure him that the case was an exceptional one.

Reasons more cogent she had none to give,
and was also aware that reasons were not what
were required ; it was supplication, and that
alone, which could gain her purpose.

Well, she would supplicate.

She tried not to think of the man as she
wrote the letter, not to feel that his hands would
unfold it, his eyes rest upon it, and his lips sneer
over it. So long as it effected its end, she would
be fain to be satisfied, at whatever expense to
her own pride ; and although certain that the
manner of his granting her request would resemble
the tossing of a bone to a dog, she would
not regard it  or him. He might laugh to
himself at having thus brought her on her
knees. Let him laugh, so long as he did not
say her nay ; and that, it was surely impossible
that he could now do.

VOL. in. K

But what if he did 1

Along with her lawyer's letter, she had that
morning received a shabby envelope with a
terribly messed-up direction, in Lizzie Comline's
well - known hand ; and perusing poor Lizzie's
effusion  tracing the not ignoble pride which
strove with the affection  the sorrow, the humiliation,
mingling with the gratitude  all the
tumult of feeling that was so apparent throughout
the simple and dignified phrases, had
brought the tears in such a stream down her
cheeks, that she had been glad no one else was
down when the early post came in ;  and though
longing for sympathy and counsel, she had not
dared to name it. To no one could the matter
be confided, until settled ;  when a brief statement
that she had helped the Comlines in an
hour of necessity would have been quite sufficient
for Lady Olivia and Marjorie. Neither
took any interest in the Comlines now; there
would probably have been felt a mild approval
of her paying off the old obligation, and that
would have been all.

She would have made no secret of the matter,
but for Evelyn. She did not wish it to come
round to him ; and come round it would most

certainly have done in Lady Olivia's benign
encouragement of her dear Kate's benevolence.

Kate hardly dared look at that poor letter
after perusing Maxwell's.

What if she should have to tell those who
were now blessing her in their full hearts,
whom she had lifted out of their despondency,
and had caused to be glad and hopeful, trusting
to her word, that she must fail them after all ?
What if she should have, with her own hands,
to dash to the ground the cup of happiness she
had held out ?

No petty conjectures as to what they might
in that case think of her, their friend and
would-be benefactress, entered into that noble
breast. She would not deserve contumely 
she did not fear it. It was the chance, the
barest minimum of a chance, the fraction of a
possibility, that Pollaxfen might, in spite of all
she had done, remain immovable, which made
her palpitate all over.

Tell herself as often as she would, that for
him to refuse was now impossible, she felt within
her secret soul that even impossibilities such as
this, do now and then take place.

CHAPTER XXXII.

pol lax fen's answer.

''A man that studied revenge keeps his own wounds green, that otherwise
would heal and do well."  Bacon.

Experience proved her right.

With all the devilish relish for such a task
likely to be engendered by revengeful thoughts
long fostered, Pollaxfen put together the few
curt sentences in which he utterly and entirely
declined to be addressed on the matter by his
sister-in-law, referring her for his answer, which
had been already given, to Mr Maxwell. Personal
correspondence on matters of business was,
he must beg to inform her once for all, out of
the question.

Unluckily, the cruel letter was put into Kate's
hand by Lady Olivia herself, Evelyn being present
as well as Marjorie ; and her step-mother's
remark on the direction being in Harold's handwriting,

did not tend to preserve her equanimity.
Lady Olivia had picked up the letter on the
hall-table, and brought it up to Kate, who was
quietly reading, or trying to read, in the ,
not having been on the look-out for
afternoon posts. It had not occurred to her
that she could have an answer before the following
morning, and she was at once startled by
receiving it in the presence of all, and discomposed
by their knowledge of who the writer
was.

See what he wants, my dear Kate," observed
her step-mother. *' It is so very, very seldom
that we ever hear anything about that connection
now,  and from Harold himself we
have not heard directly for years. I feel quite
curious."

"I daresay," suggested Marjorie, smartly,
*that it is to say he is going to be married
again. It would be just like Harold, if it be ;
he is the sort of man to go marrying on forever,"
forgetting that some one else, not very
far off, had not been restricted to a solitary
choice.

And he writes to Kate to announce it ?
Hardly likely," replied Lady Olivia, who had

happily missed the end of the sentence. "I
am the person that he would surely think it fit
to acquaint with any tidings of that sort," she
added, with a very natural touch of dignity.

''Oh, Kate is head of the house, in a way,
mamma. And though Harold hates her" 
(Evelyn listened attentively)  "though Harold
hates her,  he does, mamma, whatever you may
say,  he would not on that account, perhaps,
be backward in informing her of his new prospects.
I know what I know. Ten to one,
Eupert, that Harold Pollaxfen is going to enter
the matrimonial state once more,  will you take
me ? Quick,  before Kate satisfies mamma's
curiosity."

'there is nothing to excite curiosity," said
Kate, who, between her struggles to preserve
a calm exterior, and her mortification at the
insulting terms of her brother-in-law's refusal,
was scarcely able to speak at all. " There is
really nothing to interest any of you but myself.
I made Harold a request, and he has
refused it. I  I think he need not have
done so."

(sand I wish you had not given him the
chance," thought Evelyn.)

'' Is that all '? " both Lady Olivia and Marjorie
exclaimed,  and then laughed at each other.

*' Something about money, I suppose," continued
the elder lady, presently. " I must tell
you, Eupert, that this spendthrift girl of ours
always finds herself short of money ; and yet
no one knows what she does with it. She does
not spend it on herself; that I know," with an
affectionate look. "She does not allow herself
one - half of what Marjorie finds utterly
insufficient."

"Indeed, ma am ? Can it be because Marjorie
finds hers insufficient ? "

"Now, Eupert, how unkind ! " Bat Marjorie
looked a shade confused, all the same. " I am
sure I don't want money," she added ; "it never
does me any good. It all gets frittered away
in paying bills. As for Kate, she does not even
do that ; she has no bills to pay. Hers just
drifts away from her, no one knows how."

Except the people who receive it," added
Lady Olivia, who was rather proud of her stepdaughter's
princely ways, since they did not
interfere with her purse. "You forget them,
Marjorie."

Well, she is as good as she can be, dear

old darling ; and it is a horrible shame of that
stingy Harold not to let her have as much as
she likes, if it be money '

"It is money," said Kate, in a low voice. " I
wanted some for what I feel sure you," addressing
her step-mother, ' would have considered a
very proper purpose. At another time I will
tell you, if you care to hear, for it is a  a long
story."

' Oh yes, my dear ; another time. And I can
always trust you, I am sure ; though, of course,
it would be as well that I should be consulted.
And Harold will not consent ? "

No; Mr Macculloch and Cousin Charles both
agreed at once : it '  she struggled with her
tears  " it was not kind of Harold to refuse."
Then she rose and left the room, while those
left behind looked at each other, as though to
see what each thought.

She is very much put out," at length observed
Lady Olivia, nodding her head sagaciously.
" She never speaks so unless it is something
very serious indeed. And she was nearly
crying too I "

To think of crying about anything Harold
could do!" exclaimed Marjorie. "If I were Kate,

I should show more spirit ; I should snap my
fingers at him. What need she care '? He is
just a little smug-faced baboon, not worth a
thought."

'' I am afraid he has been rude to her' said
Lady Olivia, showing that she thought rather
more of the offender than the last speaker did,
by a slight apprehension in her tone. "I am
afraid he has been making some of his speeches.
Nobody can say more disagreeable things,  and
he never understood Kate."

' He never could bear her "

'* My dear, don't talk in that absurd way.
You were a very young girl at the only time
we ever saw anything of Harold Pollaxfen, and
cannot possibly recollect anything much about
him. There is no need to make yourself out
to be older than you are "

Nor to make myself out younger," retorted
Marjorie whose tongue was always ready with
a flippant reply, especially if her * brother ' were
present. " You forget, mamma, that though I
look so very old for my age now, I was supposed
to look equally young for it once, and that the
time that I cannot possibly recollect, was only
five years ago."

'rand here," thought Evelyn, "is a chance
I might have had all this time, and never once
thought of it ! Like Lady Olivia, my recollections
of Marjorie seemed to point to the fact
that she could not be any authority on what
passed then. She seemed a mere plaything.
But I'll lose no time in sounding her now."

Easier said than done. Marjorie went upstairs
before her step-mother, and he had to
wait.

All, however, were to be together that evening.
They were engaged to a musical party;
and though the affair was not to Evelyn's taste,
he exerted himself so far as to appear when it
was half over, getting wedged into the doorway
with the best view of the two rooms, and,
what he valued still more, of the party whom
alone he cared to observe.

Marjorie had attendants of course ; so had
Kate ; and Lady Olivia, ample and radiant,
presided over the flock.

Brewster sat next to Miss Newbattle (having
got his invitation to that end), and they talked
together so earnestly and constantly as to be
impolite to the performers,  a fact which Lady
Olivia refrained from pointing out, considering

that it was that very nice young Mr Brewster
of Castle Kenrick who was the delinquent.
Since Kate would have nothing to say to Sir
Harry, and since Castle Kenrick was such a fine
property she was told, (she had no idea whereabouts
it lay), she would not mind even though
several heads did turn round once, when at the
most piano-part of the symphony, a bass voice
at Kate's side refused to be moderated or
silenced.

That's what I should do, at least," the voice
was saying, when at length Evelyn drew near.
"You can't help it; you have done all you

could. When a brute like Pollaxfen " The

name fell distinctly on Evelyn's ear.

He stood still in mute amazement. What on
earth could Brewster have to do with Pollaxfen?
And to speak of him in such terms ? And to
Kate?

People, however, were rising on all sides, and
Brewster stopped, getting up also, while at the
same time he caught his friend's eye and nodded.
*' Just come, eh ? Well, I don't know much
about such things, but it strikes me you've lost
the best of it. We have had some uncommonly
good music, haven't we, Miss Newbattle ? "

You were an attentive pair. To see you, I
should have pronounced you both to be critics
of the first water." In spite of himself, there
was an infusion of bitterness in the raillery.

Brewster, however, only laughed. '' He's
chaffing us, Miss Newbattle ; he has been watching
us from some hiding-hole.  o  h!" with
a ludicrous air of surprise and defeat, as at that
moment who should step up but the identical
Sir Harry once or twice before named, who,
seeing that neither of the gentlemen seemed to
have thought of offering to conduct the young
lady to the supper-room, where most of the
assemblage had now adjourned, swooping down
upon the prize, bore it off himself, after the
fashion of the fox in the fable.

Oh ! '' said Brewster, rubbing his eyes.
"Well! I say!"

Evelyn also looked foolish.

Presently, however, they drew together by
mutual consent.

That's the best-hearted girl in England,"
cried Brewster, recovering himself. " I can't
tell you how sorry I am that I bothered her
about this, Evelyn. You know I couldn't help it,
for I had no idea of what she was going to do.'

What are you talking of \ "

Hasn't she told you ? "

Told me what ? Why should she tell me
anything ? "

But you are a relation,  or next door to
one. And you are always there, aren't you 1
Perhaps I ought not to say anything ; and, after
all, you could do no good, unless it were to speak
to the poor girl, and tell her not to fret. She's
in a sad way about it ; and what's worse, it's
my fault,  for I should have stopped her at the
first. I wouldn't have it get about for anything,
mind you ; for I don't know what would
be thought of my allowing my tenants to be
relieved by another proprietor. It was only
Miss Newbattle's making out that she had been
under an obligation  bother it, I'm telling you
now, after all ! "

Look here," said Evelyn ; ' you may go on.
I understand now why Kate did not tell me,
and there is nothing to hinder my hearing of it
from you. Perhaps I can help her."

If you could  but I don't see that you can.
However, you remember the people at the Muir-land
Farm,  the farmer that took you in "

' Perfectly. What about them '? "

Awfully hard up, that's all. Lost nearly all
their stock  well, more than half, at least  in
the cattle - plague. Miss Newbattle wants to
help them. She says the daughter was nursery-governess
at their place, and that afterwards she
herself was taken ill while down at the farm  I
had an idea I had heard something about it, but
it had gone out of my head, not knowing anything
about the Newbattles then,  and so she
thinks she would have liked to do something
for the poor folks." Brewster was himself
rather disappointed at the failure of the attempt,
as was natural, and spoke of the " poor folks "
quite pathetically.

' Did she tell you any more ? " said Evelyn.

' Oh yes ; the end of it was, that she wrote
off to them at once ;  of course she shouldn't
have done that, till she had seen her way clearer
but then women never stop to think,  and it
was really awfully nice of her, wasn't it ? Off
she wrote, and told 'em all about it. So, of
course, they were pleased enough, poor critters.
And then this morning comes a plump refusal
to let her have the money  it was to be yq
hundred pounds "  looking rather sheepish 
'' from her brother-in-law, Harold Pollaxfen, one

of the trustees. It seems the estate is under
trust, and she had had the consent of the two
others, on the strength of which she wrote to
the Comlines. Considering, you know, that
she was doubtful of any one of them, it was
about the last thing she should have done,"
concluded Brewster, sensibly.

She pledged her word that they should have
the money 1 "

So she says."

*' And Pollaxfen refuses, in order to annoy
her,  not," said Evelyn, " that there is any real
difficulty ? "

If there had been any real difficulty, her
lawyer. Maxwell, who seems a straightforward
fellow by his letter, would have pointed it out."

She showed you the letter ? " said Evelyn,
with a faint pang, for which he could not account.
It was too absurd to be jealous of poor
Brewster, dio was as honest a jackass as ever
walked the earth ; but it was a little grievous to
feel that he had been shut out from a confidence
to which this acquaintance of a week had been
admitted.

Oh yes, she showed me the letter," replied
his companion, pluming himself thereon, and

looking vastly pleased. " She brought it here
to-night, on purpose  and Pollaxfen's too."

I don't see what occasion there was for her
doing that."

Well, you know, it was only natural that
Miss Newbattle didn't want me to suppose that
she had spoken off the book. She had made so
cock-sure of having the five hundred all right, 
had talked a little big, you know, meaning no
harm, poor thing,  that it is rough upon her ;
and she is a proud kind of girl, too ; she hates
to have to own beat."

Very true. She would feel it, certainly.
She showed you both the answers ? " interrogatively.


The lawyer's was all right,  sensible, to the
point, offering to write again if required  of
course, six - and - eighteen, you know ; but
Pollaxfen's was a beast of a letter,  and to send
it to that lovely girl ! "

'' Was it, was it really ? "

I tell you what, Evelyn, she has given it
him hot at some time or other, or else he is wild
at missing the place himself Carnochan, they
tell me, is a goodish estate, and he married the
eldest of them. Lady Olivia looked him out.

glad to get one off her hands, I suppose. Stepmother,
you know. By George, she's your
mother ! "

*' Oh, well," he presently resumed, reassured
by his companion's laugh, "they get on all
right, I suppose. I don't know anything about
it, I only say what other people tell me. But
Fm deuced sorry I let this poor girl put herself
in Pollaxfen's way."

"Met him ever'

Oh yes. One year I saw a good deal of
him. Awful little  how did he come to be
picked up by your people at all '? "

Brighton. I say, is he the sort of fellow
that would be capable of  of "

"Anything, as long as he wasn't found out.
Everybody who knows him has some story or
other to tell of him. But he's a sneaking kind of
hound too ; he would have been more careful if
he had suspected this would come to the surface."

It would be good sport to take him in the
flank," said Evelyn, looking fixedly into his
friend's face. "A surprise movement, eh 1 I
won't have Kate baulked of her whim. As you
say, it is hard upon her  and she is a proud
girl. To be done by such an earthworm ! She

VOL. III. L

shall have the five hundred  it's nothing to me
and she shall keep her word to the Comlines."

"Oh I" said Brewster, coldly. 'Ahl As
you like, of course. But  but I wish you
wouldn't. It makes a fellow feel so uncommonly
awkward "

Not at all. Why should it ? I have nothing
to do with you or your tenants ; but I tell you
only keep it to yourself  that I would pay
ten times the amount to checkmate Pbllaxfen."

*' And to help Kate."

To help Kate, yes. She was quite right in
supposing that now is the time when she could
clear off scores with them gracefully and properly
; and it would be a very uncomfortable
feeling for her, and very improper that she
should have to feel it, if she were obliged to
draw back. My mother can't help her  she has
not more than she wants herself  and I am the
next person. You'll hold your tongue about it,
I know, like a good fellow, for all our sakes ; but
I just inform you, that you may not be wondering
what took place when the farmer tells you
he got the cheque. Just you look upon it as
Miss Newbattle's money, will you?"

I suppose so," said poor Brewster, ruefully.

'' But' he added, '' with, a sudden gleam of
hope, will she take it \ "

Of course shell take it from me. I am the
only person she could take it from," replied his
companion, very decidedly. '* I'll settle it with
her to-night. No fears. So you may set your
mind at rest about old Combines''

But what was the pleasure of having a mind
at rest about old Comline, when it was not at
rest about himself '? It seemed as if Evelyn had
bowled him out completely ; and what followed
next, made him disposed to throw up the game,
and walk away from the field.

Lady Olivia and the girls came up to summon
their squire ; they were off to finish the evening
somewhere else, but it appeared that Kate was
tired, and indisposed to go.

I am trying to find that tiresome Mrs
Heatherwill,'' explained Lady Olivia ; '* I have
been hunting her up and down the rooms
everywhere ; for she passes our very door, and
I know she would drop Kate there with pleasure.
She has her carriage quite to herself "

She is gone, mamma," said Marjorie.

Charlotte says she went ten minutes ago."
Did she really, Charlotte ? How stupid of

me not to find her sooner ! Then we must look
for some other person ; but it is not every one
who is going home so early."

Never mind " began Kate, trying to be

heard.

Let me be the some one," said a voice that
was the last she could have expected to hear.
' I am going nowhere else, and I will see Kate
home with pleasure 1 "

 " Are you not coming with us, Eupert ? "
Lady Olivia spoke, and Marjorie looked, the
same interrogation.

"No, I have had enough, thank you."

You really have 1 And were not going onto
Lady Cartwright's, at any rate ? Well, that is
lucky ; that will do admirably, then. We shall
be the losers ; but then you had not been coming,
 and Kate is really fatigued. My dear
Kate, Eupert will take you home. You understand
how it is, do you not, Eupert ? We are
going in precisely the opposite direction, and
to-night it so happens that we are a long way
from Chirk Street,  it is so kind of you  so
much obliged. Now, Marjorie."

'' We'll go in a hansom, eh, Kate 1 " said
Evelyn, pleasantly.

"Looks miserable, doesn't she, poor girl,"
whispered Brewster, who had lingered, talking
to the other two. *' I say, Evelyn, you're a
good fellow, and I won't begrudge you your
luck, if you are the man,  but if you're not,
put in a word for me."

"I don't half believe he is, either," he declared
afterwards, as he marked the reluctance and trepidation
which the gallant soldier's marching-orders
excited.

Evelyn had almost to drag his unwilling
young lady down the stairs, and to Lady Olivia
alone was left all the thanking and smiling,
since Marjorie looked as forbidding as her sister.

It was very stupid and tiresome of Eupert to
go, and he only did it to vex her, she thought.

Eupert, however, would not let go his hold ;
and it being a glorious July night, he had no
scruples in obliging his charge to walk along
for some distance until they came upon a
hansom.

"Drive round the Park first," was all the
direction he gave, before getting in after her;
and he said it boldly, so that she might hear.
It will do your head good, Kate. The night
is pretty cool, and we can open the whole

concern, and get as much of the fresh air as
possible. Did you ever take a hansom through
London in the dark before ? "

In pointing out to her this and that, he found
occupation for the first five minutes.

After that, both were silent for a while, and
then they turned into the Park. But for their
first understanding, it might have been embarrassing
here ; thrown thus into such close juxtaposition,
without any hope of interruptions or
relief, nothing but excessive discomfort and
awkwardness might have been felt. '* But
now," said Kate to herself,  " now we are both
quite easy, and can talk to each other without
minding at all about it."

Why, then, did they not talk "? All was silent
enough ; the soft ground they were passing
over scarcely permitted the sound of their own
wheels or the horse's hoofs to be heard. The
lights in the streets receded farther and farther
in the distance. Still Evelyn held his peace ; and
it was not until, in desperation, she had made
some trite remark upon the beauty of the night,
that he turned his head towards her.

I was sorry to see you so unwell to-night,"
he began. *' Mr Pollaxfen's letter "

Thank you, yes," quickly. " His letter was
not a pleasant one, but I should not have shown
how much it  how much I felt it. Perhaps I
should rather say," she added, " that I should
not have felt it."

"Would you mind my knowing what your
correspondence was about ? "

Oh I could not tell you."

"You need not tell me  I know. I meant,
do you mind my having been told ? Brewster
told me. I made him."

'' Mr Brewster ? " She drew a breath, and
waited. Then suddenly went on, '* It was unkind,
was it not, Eupert 1 Harold does not like
me,  he never did ; but just because of that,
should he force me to act unworthily, or at
least to show that I have no power to keep my
word, and fulfil the hopes I have held out ? I
would rather have done anything, anything,
than this ! " He could see her lip quiver ere
she turned it from him.

I cannot understand," said Eupert, slowly,
"what object he can have in using you so ill ? "

"He has no object. He dislikes me; that
is all."

Why,  pardon me,  but why, Kate, does he

dislike you 1 " Her quick ear caught something
unusual in the question, and she looked round
at once.

Why 1 " she said,  ' why ? Can one always
give a reason for being disliked ? People who

do not like each other at the beginning "

she paused, getting out of her depth.

*' It seems to me," said Evelyn, determined to
go on, " that there is more in this than appears.
Dislike is a feeble word. , I gather that your
brother-in-law, of whom I must tell you that
I have no specially good opinion, has some
personal and deep-rooted grudge against you,
Kate. Not against the family, so much as
against you. Is this so 1 "

She could not deny it.
r "And now  what is the meaning of that
grudge ? "

No reply.

I ask you," said Rupert, less collectedly, 
I ask you, dear Kate, out of no idle curiosity,
believe me. Do not refuse to answer. Give me
your confidence ; I promise to hold it sacred. "

Eupert  I cannot."

'' You cannot 1 "

She shook her head.

It is the one thing I ask of you now ; and
I do ask it very earnestly  most earnestly.
There must have been some cause given, or
supposed to have been given, for this extraordinary
and otherwise incomprehensible repugnance
: it pains you to speak of it,  and no
wonder; but for your own sake "

*' For Alice's sake," said Kate, quickly, ' I
cannot''

For Alice's sake 1 " He appeared to be
deeply struck, and on the verge of knowing all.
For Alice's sake, did you say ? Then the
mystery lies between you, Alice, and Pollaxfen :
is it so ? " His heart sank.

"Yes, it does."

'' And you will not tell me ? Then at least
put me in the way of learning the truth from
others,  your sisters ? "

No, no ; they know nothing."

Who, then 1 In heaven's name, Kate, don't
trifle with me ! Do I frighten you 1 I did not
mean to do that," more gently. '' But if you
would only speak "

I will not speak. Eupert, you mean kindly,
and I thank you. I see you think I care about
being friends with Harold, and I do not ; that is

all : there is no need to try to reconcile us  weare
better apart ; and I will try to conquer all
angry feelings towards him. He is not a man I
can ever esteem : he tries, as you see, personally
to annoy and disturb me ; but he was Alice's
husband, and I would rather we said no more
about him''

By heaven, you are a noble girl ! "  said
Evelyn, and broke off short. His tongue refused
to utter another word; and poor Kate,
whose heart had leaped at the words, waited
in vain for more.

They passed into a long, dark, shady avenue.

"Let us drop the subject then," said Evelyn,
in a new tone ; " and now that we are under the
trees, Kate, and I cannot see your face if it be
not friendly to my announcement, I shall perhaps
have the courage to tell you what principally
brought me home with you to-night. It
was not only to importune you that I came : dry
your eyes, and prepare to smile again. You shall
have the cheque you promised to your friends
by tomorrow morning; and they need never
know that there was any hitch in the matter."

But, Eupert  you  have you any power
over the estate?" said Kate, in surprise.

Not over yours, but over my own. Look
here : if we could have made Pollaxfen eat his
own words, that is what I should have liked
better than anything,  a little, low-born, pettifogging
interloper, to dare to treat you
so "

Never mind." It was a very gentle voice
that spoke. " Never mind him, Eupert; I don't."

You did, however ; he brought the tears to
your eyes this afternoon "

Tell me what you were going to say."

I cannot let you suffer  or perhaps it ought
to be that I cannot let our poor friends in Galloway
suffer  because of his brutality. You will
not be proud and foolish with me, Kate, and refuse
my help ? No one else can stop my giving the
five hundred you promised ; and as you know
the pain of being prevented accomplishing your
intentions yourself, I trust to you," smiling, " not
to inflict the like pain upon me."

' But do you really mean that you will give
the poor Comlines the money 1 "

'' I certainly mean to give it you for them."

'' Not me ! "

Yes, you. You are a woman of business
now, Kate, and can understand that it would be

quite undesirable for me to appear in the affair.
Think for yourself, and you will see that these
good people cannot but know, whatever they
may choose to say, that you do owe them a good
turn, and they show their sense by making no
demur to accepting one at your hands. But if
they were to find that they were, after all, relieved
by me  by one who was  was  well, you
know what I would say; however kind and
hospitable they were, they would hardly recognise
that as being anything of a claim,  they
would feel degraded  it would embitter all their
pleasure ; now, would it not 1 ''

*' Perhaps ; yes. Oh, you are right, I suppose :
and how good you are, Rupert ! I am so glad, 
so very glad ! Thank you : may I say, thank
you" shyly.

Well, yes ; you may say * Thank you.' And
T shall say ' Thank you too ; for you have saved
me a long explanation by the exercise of your
intelligence and forbearance. If everybody were
only as quick at understanding as you, Kate,
it is such a nuisance to have to argue and
expound."

Oh dear, I am so glad ! I can't tell you
how glad I am 1 "

Perhaps it was not altogether about the
cheque, but this of course she did not know ; it
seemed as if it were, and she would not look
beneath the surface that night. It was something
to be even unreasonably happy.

"You don't know how many ways I had
thought of, for saving up the money somehow 
but I am afraid I should never have done it ;
besides which, they would have had to wait.
Oh, Eupert, it is so kind of you ! "

** Is it "? It must be pleasant to be kind, then."

After I had spoken to Mr Brewster, I had
no hope ; for he told me at once that nothing
more could be done."

Much Brewster knew about it ! Why did
you not come to me ? You treated us all very
badly, I think, telling no one your trouble, and
flying off with it to Brewster ! "

*' I had no one else," said Kate, colouring ;
*rand he had to be told, besides."

' You might have confided in me, at any
rate. It was a perfect wonder that he did not
want to help you  eh '? "

I am afraidhe did."

Both were silent, then both laughed.

The relief of having something to laugh at,

the relief of being thus unexpectedly delivered
from her dilemma, and the relief of having
brought a trying interview to a close  for they
were now rattling through the busy streets
again  was altogether too much for the overstrung
nerves of the sensitive, excitable girl ;
and from having begun with a feeling of diversion
that was sober enough, Kate laughed immoderately,
intemperately, wildly.

She could not stop.

How could he know that the gasps and sighs
he heard, were not all excited by her sense of
the ludicrous  that her merriment was hysterical
that she bowed and bent over, as again and
again she was overcome by mirth, almost writhing
under the pain it gave, because her poor
weak body was unable at this time to resist *?

He looked at her, and his own laughter died
away.

They reached home, and he got out, carefully
assisting her to alight ; but he did not take her
hand and lead her in, as he had all but made up
his mind to do.

They waited together on the step, no one
coming at the first summons ; and the hansom
turned and drove off.

'' The servants are out, or enjoying themselves,"
said Evelyn. "How silent it is hereabouts
to-night I Hark, Kate, to that heavy,
rumbling, continuous sound in the distance !
That is the roar of Piccadilly." He stopped,
listening,  then muttered half aloud, " It is like
the noise of the waves in Galloway."

CHAPTER XXXIII.

THE END OF THE SEASON.

You've played, and lov'd, and ate, and drank your fill,
Walk sober off. . . . "

Pope.

The cheque ws sent off the following day, and
by a speedy post came the Comlines' grateful
acknowledgments.

The letter was duly shown to the true donor,
and Mr Brewster was apprised thereof, and Lady
Olivia and Marjorie were told as much as it was
good for them to know ; but nothing of any note
came out of all these conferences, and soon Kate
learned to forget that she had been looked at
fervently and spoken to kindly.

She had but to suppose that Rupert had been
interested in circumventing Pollaxfen, with
whom he had now confessed to having quarrelled
at the time of the wedding ; and that a

feeling of recrimination had in reality, more
than perhaps he was himself aware, lain at the
bottom of his desire to take up the cudgels on
her behalf.

She could not read his heart, and appearances
were certainly against him.

He was now, it seemed again, all for Marjorie.
Lady Olivia was obviously awakened
and suspicious, constantly begging dear Kate to
take Rupert's arm, leaving her on his hands at
every opportunity, and studiously watching that
he was not alone with the sister who was really
harmless. Days passed, and he could not find
the opportunity he wanted.

There were eyes, however, that saw something
was amiss.

'' Oh, take her, take her ; make up your mind,
and have done with it ! " Kate would break out
to herself with dry lips and burning cheek.
End this miserable courtship  if courtship it
can be called  so unlike that which I remember,
yet which seems to satisfy poor, easily-contented
Marjorie. You would not have won me so,
Rupert. I would not have been caught by a
lazy word now and then, and a compliment on
my clothes that is more than half contemptuous.

VOL. III. M

He only makes much of her if he be in the
mood  she has no power to draw him towards
her, to keep him with her. Oh, he spoke to me
differently, he looked at me differently! Her
companionship does not animate him as mine
did. With me he was always gay, happy, content
; he seemed to need no other presence, to
want no one else when I was by. Even yet I
could satisfy him, if he did but know, would
but believe  God help me ! what am I saying ?
Have I been seeking to submit to His will all
these years, only to come to this at last V , . .
It is a little hard to bear," said poor Kate,
presently. " But it is all for the best. I am
strong, I can stand a good deal. My brothers-in-law,"
added she, with a brave smile, "are
evidently, one way or another, destined to bethe
torment of my life ! "

After this, she was more at the Charles Newbattles
than ever : and Walter painted her ; and
found that, contrary to his prognostications, he
did not "make a better thing" of Marjorie, for
Kate's portrait was universally admired, while
that of her sister was pronounced to be a washed-out
and shadowy thing that had mistaken itself
for a Greuze.

G-reuze only would have done her justice,"
asserted Walter ; and he found some consolation
in the continual corrections and retouches that
were necessary ; but he himself owned in the
end that he had not succeeded.

The curl of Kate's long black lashes, the rich
bloom of her cheek, her melting eye and tender
lip, he had caught wonderfully well, to do him
justice ; the turn of her head showed the exquisite
curve of chin and throat, and the narrow
gold band which caught up her hair had not
been ] suffered to confine it. One long tress
strayed over her shoulder, and lost itself in the
sombre hues of her dress.

It was altogether a good picture, and nothing
gratified the youthful aspirant to fame
more than the unequivocal pleasure of Evelyn
over it.

Evelyn hardly looked at the tall girl in white,
with a blue sash round her waist, who would not
turn into Marjorie for all the pains both Walter
and his sitter had been at. He had been brought
down by the original on purpose to say what he
thought of it; and all she got was this. He
pronounced it very good, excellent,  gave it the
highest praise it had yet received from any one,

but, even as the glib compliments were passing
his lips, his eyes were roving.

He could not keep them off the other portrait.

Kate was not there, or he might have been
more wary, more guarded in his expressions,
more furtive in his inspection. As it was, the
moment Marjorie's back turned,  for she was
called off presently by the girls,  he openly
hung over the rival canvas.

*' It is her very image," he said. " Her look,
her movement. You must have had a treat
indeed, in having so rare a subject. I congratulate
you from my heart. What a fortunate
man you must be, Mr Newbattle, to have the
power of producing such speaking likenesses !
What hours of enjoyment you must have !
What anticipations, when you have tempted such
a sitter into your studio ! The triumph you
achieve at the close must alone console you
for the cessation of your pleasant toil."

But in the case of the other picture, the toil
had ceased without the triumph,  and it was
with it Walter was principally concerned, as
we know : however, he was infinitely relieved to
find that no notice, or next to none, was bestowed
on that unfortunate failure, and that all

the raptures of his companion were reserved
for Kate.

That was as it should be. He was charmed
with Evelyn  whom, until that day, he had
detested,  and could not subsequently be loud
enough in his praise. Men were not his forte,
he said, or he certainly should have liked to
have made a pair-picture to his dark-eyed belle.

At the time, he could only listen and smile,
well pleased to have at once his heart lightened
and his artistic vanity tickled,  for the time
not even minding that his cousin Marjorie had
neither eyes nor ears for him. She was engaged
during most of the visit in laying down the law
on divers points of fashion and folly, for the
edification of Dora and Josephine, who, not
without their own reasons for doing so, carried
her off, that she might not interfere with that
round of the studio which they presumed their
brother to be taking his guest. Who could say
what this grand Captain Evelyn might not do
for Walter ? Give him commissions, and all
sorts of things.

They came back, however, to find the gentlemen,
as they had left them, in front of the
sisters' portraits ; for though there had been

a running commentary on other sketches  on
a few of the most cherished of the collection, 
they had met with too little attention to encourage
the appearance of more. All the real interest
that had been shown was for the one picture, 
and there had been enough enthusiasm lavished
upon it, to make up for any amount of lukewarmness
over others.

"Exhibit it, by all means, if you have her
permission : but I think I know Kate better,"
were the words the returning party caught on
their entrance.

Either Marjorie was not one of those who
heard, or she did not object to the sentiment ;
she was very gay and ridiculous during the
homeward drive, recalling to Lady Olivia's remembrance
all the odd freaks that Kate had
ever been guilty of, and tittering even over the
vehement alliance lately formed between her
and their cousin Walter.

If I were you, mamma, I should not allow
her to go there so much,  I should not, indeed.
You thought that I was not to be trusted, but
it may turn out that Kate is the combustible
person. He has taken no pains with me ; has
he, Rupert ? He was all on my side at the first

I do assure you he was, though you may not
believe it,  for I saw quite well that you
thought nothing of my picture, and I consider
it a wretched daub myself,  and the reason is,
that now he has deserted to the heiress. That's
the way with them all. Penniless paupers like
me," said Marjorie, drawing her brows together
distressfully, " are pushed on one side altogether,
directly the rich elder sister looks benignant.
Has she been looking benignant in that quarter,
do you think, Eupert 1 "

Eupert said nothing, but he went back to
Chirk Street grimly determined.

A visitor was in the drawing-room. Hurrah !
Here was his chance of a private interview at
last. He had been resolved to get, but not to
make, the opportunity, since the sequel might
not warrant his having done the latter. It
would be making too much of the matter if he
seized upon his prey, and then could extract
nothing from her !

'' Look here, Madge," he said, after inveigling
her into the back drawing-room, "what is it
about your brother-in-law, that you and my
mother have hinted at once or twice ? Why
did he behave so in this matter of Kate's ? "

'' Oh he hates Kate'

'* You have said that more than once. Come,
we shall get on now, for that is the very point
I am driving at. "Why does he hate Kate ? "

Marjorie picked a flower to pieces.

Do tell me," said Rupert, coming close to
her; ' I know by your look that you have something
nice and amusing to say. Do be amusing,
Madge ; Tm in want of entertainment''

Well, she would be amusing. She would, at
any rate, detain him there by her side, instead
of permitting him to wander off to the front
room, and be pounced upon by Lady Olivia.

''V\\ tell you all I know," she said; 'but,
Eupert, you must really take care not to say
a word to Kate, for she looked as black as a
thunder-cloud the only time I ever mentioned
the subject to her. She has such lofty ideas
about honour and things,  and of course poor
Alice is dead, and so Kate is quite right to say
nothing that would have vexed her,  but how
Alice could ever marry the man ! And Alice
must have known something about it too ! "

It 1 " said Evelyn, with his eyes on the floor.
"What?"

'just that Harold tried all he could to get

Kate first. Hush ! There she comes ! " They
both listened breathlessly.

It was only a servant, however, who was soon
gone again.

'' Now tell me," said Evelyn, " all about it,
Marjorie. And see here,  tell me first how do
you know ? Who told you 1 How did you
find our'

It was only Mademoiselle," said Marjorie, a
little reluctantly, "our French governess, who
was at Brighton with us when we first knew
Harold. She said she found out directly that
he was going to propose to Alice, and she believed
that he did really come after us for that
purpose ; but then, as soon as ever he met Kate
at Carnochan, he fell over head and ears in love
with her. Mademoiselle declared that was the
truth. She told Bertha, and Bertha told me
the last time she was staying with us. Bertha
and Mademoiselle were always great friends,
you know."

Weirs said Evelyn,  well ? What next ? "

Next he took to playing fast and loose with
them both ! Wasn't it a joke 1  only poor
Alice is dead, so we mustn't laugh. But think
of the cunning of the creature ! He tried to

make sure of Kate before he let go his hold of
Alice ; he hadn't learned that he should be ' off
with the old love you know, before he was ' on
with the new "

And did he get * on with the new ' 1 "

Not he. Get ' on ' with Kate ! She would
as soon have picked up a toad ! Mademoiselle
said he used to lie in wait for her behind doors,
and out in the passages,  and even followed her
up to her own little room, when he was sure
the others were out of the house, and did everything
he could to make up to her : how blind
mamma must have been, and them all ! " broke
off Marjorie suddenly; "if / had been older, I
should have seen through him in a trice."

"To be sure you would. And it appears
Mademoiselle did?"

'' Yes. But think of her being the only one,
Eupert ! The only one of all those people
about ! "

' Perhaps she was not the only one. Others
may have chosen to keep their own counsel
better."

Oh, but she is. At least mamma does not
know a thing, and Kate would be very angry
indeed if she were told ; and I don't suppose

Alice did, or she would surely not have taken
him afterwards. Fancy Harold's going straight
from being refused by the one sister, to propose
to the other ! "

A curious thing to do ; but time pressed, I
suppose," said Evelyn, with a great assumption
of being lively. " And no doubt he was in the
vein ; he had had one love-scene, and "

' I should not have imagined it was such

as to lead him to long for another. Ha, ha, ha ! "

Kate would not be reticent, I presume, ashe
would find to his cost, eh ? "

Not she. I daresay she swore at him "

"Marjorie!"

"Well?"

You promised me not to say such things."

Goodness, Rupert ! you are the most particular
man I ever met. Because you don't swear
yourself,  and by the way, why don't you ?
Mamma says you are very much changed since
you went away, and she thinks you must have
been under the influence of some very excellent,
superior person. Pray who may this excellent,
superior person be '? And when may we expect
to see her appear on the horizon '? "

My mother has shown more penetration

than I gave her credit for. But the person in
question is certainly not on the horizon," with a
slight emphasis on the latter words.

'' Oh then, she "

Who said it was a ' she ' ? Don't be childish,
my dear, else I shall suggest that you have
Mademoiselle back again. And  ah  by the
way, where is the good lady now 1 "

'' Gone to a Miss Grubber."

' A what ? " said Evelyn.

''A Miss Grubber," repeated Marjorie, looking
at him gravely. "A  Miss  rubber. A
first cousin of Harold's dear friend Grubber,
who came to the wedding,  not to fill your
shoes  for those were already shuffling about
upon the feet of Shangles  but your collar,
or your mittens, or some other part of you that
was beyond what Shangles could undertake.
The two came ; and the poor Grub was condemned
to crawl into breakfast with Mademoiselle,
and be under a raking fire of French
verbs all the time he was eating. However,
he lived through it ; and the other day, when
I had persuaded mamma to let me finish my
wonderful education, and bring me up to this
land of bliss,  which, by the way, she never

would have done, but that she thought I was
being run after by somebody there ''

Somebody there ! It seems to me there is
somebody everywhere."

It is not my fault, Rupert."

"At any rate, you lost no time. You improved
the shining hour even under Mademoiselle's
reign *? And how did she fall in again
with Mr Grubber,  was he another 'somebody?"

No, no ; nonsense ! "

"You think not? Oh, but give him the
benefit of the doubt. At least he took an
interest iu Mademoiselle. She was not the
rose, but still  eh?"

Rose or not, he introduced her to the Manchester
heiress, and there she is now. Fancy
Manchester in July ! "

Does Miss Grubber live in Manchester ? "

"No, a few miles out of it. Springfield is
the name of the place. Oh, I daresay Mademoiselle
is very well off. She will get the best
of good living among the cotton lords, and that
is what she cares for most in the world."

And perhaps the young lady will bring her
to Town occasionally. Is she  ah  likely to
be up just now ?"

*' Oh no, they're at home. I had a letter from
Mademoiselle yesterday. I write to the poor
soul every now and then "

' To recount your triumphs''

To recount my triumphs ? Yes, sir,  if you
choose to say so. It is something to have triumphs
to recount ; and Mademoiselle does not
find fault with my poor epistles, at any rate.
From the way she thanks me for them, no one
would ever believe that she once threw up her
hands and eyes over my exercises ! "

'* Doubtless the exercises deserved that, and
more. She was with you for six years, and
has survived it ! I think she deserves commendation
at the hands of the family. I shall
be in Manchester in a day or two ; would it
give her any pleasure if I were to call, do you
think?"

Oh do, Eupert ! It really would. How nice
of you to think of it ! She would never get
over the compliment ; and, as you say, she was
with us a long time; and I have no doubt 
that is to say, I can see perfectly well that her
heart is with us still. She is always talking
of us, and puffing us off to her new friends, I
know. And she was really fond of me, and of

Kate too, in her way, though Bertha was her
great ally. She would be overwhelmed by the
honour of a visit."

'' Well, she shall have it "

* Mind you tell her all about us. Tell her
that I electrify the whole fashionable world
with my knowledge of her adorable language ;
that I find no one else half so well instructed ;
and that wherever there is a foreign ambassador
or prince  don't stick at trifles  to be entertained
and spoken to in his own tongue, Miss
Marjorie Newbattle is sent for post-haste. Do
give her something to talk about, and plume
herself upon, Eupert. You don't know how
little it needs to be, nor how much she will
make of it."

Mademoiselle had been so entirely the person
of persons with her pupils during the last six
years, that even Marjorie could retain an interest
in her preceptress three months after
parting. She was charmed that the report 'of
her brilliant emancipation should be conveyed
to the ears not only of her late governess, but
also to those of the less fortunate Miss Grubber,
who had still many a weary verb to conjugate.
She gave Evelyn hints of what he was to say.

of the points lie particularly desired to be
brought forward,  and could scarce forbear
telling him to tell them both outright that she
was the reigning beauty of the day. That,
however, she did just feel might be left to
himself

All of this the messenger took in good part.
He had learned the utmost that he had expected
from the interview, and it had all been
satisfactory,  so satisfactory indeed, that, until
he had the main facts corroborated, he scarcely
dared to think of them. Go down to Manchester
he would, forthwith.

He was, however, obliged to defer the expedition
for a day at two, since business called
him down peremptorily to his own place ; and
he was detained there fully a week.

On rejoining the party in London, he found
that they were on the wing also. Their time
was up ; they had only the house in Chirk
Street until the end of July, and the end was
now close at hand. In vain Evelyn endeavoured
to inveigle them to Evelyn Towers.
Lady Olivia knew better; and even Marjorie,
whose birthday was to be celebrated by an influx
of gay people on their return to Carnochan,

was ready to precede them. Kate was not
asked.

The next thing was, however, why  since
they would not go with him  why should he
not go with them 1

They would be glad of an escort ; and though
it would have been unbecoming in Lady Olivia
to have taken her two step - daughters down
to her son's estate, no one could find anything
unusual in the son's accompanying his mother
to her present home. That, if it meant anything
at all sinister, meant that he was pursuing
her fair charges,  the former movement
must have seemed like pursuit of him, and
pursuit so palpable that she wondered, with
inquiring eyes, how Eupert could ever have
proposed it '?

Eupert laughed and coloured, when this was
pointed out to him.

Well," he said, " I daresay you are in the
right, ma'am ; we must not set tongues wagging.
But how about this ' season ' of yours '?
Are you pleased ? Are you satisfied ? Has it,
on the whole, turned out as well as you could
have expected ? "

Quite," said Lady Olivia, emphatically.

VOL. III. N

Perfectly, completely, entirely. They have
been more thought of than any other girls
possessed of only their advantages ; they have
been in the best circles, and they can begin
next year where they left off this. As to their
being married  that," audaciously, "is what I
had no desire for."

I agree with you. Marjorie is too young."

'' Much too young. I am so glad you think
so. A very great deal too young. Think of
it  barely seventeen ! "

'' And Kate is too "

Yes, Kate is too "

You say," said Evelyn, maliciously. " I 
what?"

Upon my word, I don't know." Even his
mother could not help being diverted. " But
you know, Rupert, I cannot quite wish her to
marry. Although I should be truly sorry to
put any hindrance in the way of a really eligible
alliance  indeed, that is a thing I would not do
upon any account,  still, since there is no one, I
cannot be grieved that she is still  that we are
still to go on in the old way. They are dear

girls " she stopped, she did not wish to

praise them too much.

And about this journey, Rupert ? I really
think the plan you suggest is excellent. To
go by sea from Liverpool would be a very
little way, and we should miss so much of the
railway. Eeally, it would be a great let off.
My poor head would not stand a long railway
journey, nor a night at a noisy hotel. All the
hotels will be crowded just now with people
going north for the Twelfth. *The Twelfth,'
you know  that is our great day in Scotland.
And so you will come with us ? It is too kind."

She hardly knew how to think enough of his
proposal. Had he suggested that they should
all take flight in a balloon, she would have been
charmed with his considerateness.

His idea was, that, as he had business in
Manchester, he should set ofl" by an early train,
transact it, and reach Liverpool in time to meet
the party there, whence they would proceed at
once, by sea, to Kirkcudbright.

Since all were pleased with the arrangement,
it might now be gone into more thoroughly. It
was found to answer every purpose. A London
train reached the Liverpool terminus at seven
o'clock, the Kirkcudbright boat sailed on Friday
evening at eight. If the weather continued

favourable, nothing could be pleasant than
such an hour of departure, since the change from
the heat and dust of the railway, to the coolness
and quiet of the water, would be delicious. Perhaps
Evelyn did not know  at least he certainly
did not tell Lady Olivia  that the " Countess of
Galloway " came to Liverpool laden with cattle,
and returned filled with boxes, barrels, cargo
unsavoury and illimitable. He had a fancy for
the mode of transit, and could see nothing in it
but what was agreeable. His mother was content,
and the berths were written for.

Friday came, and there had been no change
made in the programme.

Evelyn started early : they did not see him
before he left, but he had been with them late
the night before ; and after he had left, they had
all been rather dull and thoughtful, and Marjorie
had been absolutely inclined to moralise to her
sister, as they lingered in the denuded drawing-room
 Lady Olivia having gone up-stairs.

Oh dear, dear," she said. ' It is all over
at last. I wonder whether anything will ever
again be so beautiful, so wonderful. First there
was the coming up on that lovely May day 
it was like a fairy-scene, after our hot, dusty

journey in the dark  and then getting together
all the pretty things, and last of all the people.
Do you remember, Kate, the day we came home
from our drive, and found the hall-table covered
with cards and notes "? It was never empty again
after that. And it has been just Paradise ever
since ; everything one did, and went to, more
delightful than the last. And  and Eupert
coming too."

*you were as happy before Eupert came,
Marjorie '? " It was half a question, half an
assertion. Marjorie, however, took it as the
latter. ' Oh dear, yes'' she said, decidedly.
Every bit as happy, and would have been as
happy had he stayed away. I had plenty without
him, I can assure you, Kate : all I meant
was, that he helped us ; he  he looked well, and
people liked him ; and  and, on the whole, it
was a good thing he came. Not that we wanted
him, not that / wanted him at all,  only he
made the whole thing more complete. Oh dear
me ! I do wish I were coming up tomorrow
morning again for the first time ! Can there
ever be a second time to equal such a first 1
Carnochan would be dreadful, if it were not for
my birthday. That will enable me to survive.

I do hope the Tempests will come," she added,
eagerly. *'I think they will, but they would
not say for certain. Teddy says he will come,
whatever the rest do ; but I am afraid the
rest won't let him, unless they come themselves.
Teddy would help us with everything ; he knows
how to carry off things so well ; everybody said
that Lady Tempest would never have had half
such nice parties but for Teddy."

Oh, Kate," she broke out after a pause.
About the ball, what shall we say to the
Maclures ? We cavJt have them, you know.
Are really can not. I don t know what the
Tempests or the Barrington would think.
What shall we do ? ''

' Ah ! " said, ber sister, gaily, " it is for you
to settle between your Teddy and your Neddy,
I have nothing to do with it."

'' Cruel wretch ! You settled poor Walter
with a vengeance."

Walter is different. Walter I can feel for.
Had I not interfered, I believe he would have
been invited down for the birthday too I "

Oh, he was," said Marjorie, coolly ; " but he
denied himself the pleasure."

Marjorie, how could you ? "

How could I what ? "

Knowing what . you know, and feeling as
you feel, you ought to have done anything rather
than that."

'' Feeling as I feel ? Pray, how do I feel ? "

I do not say anything about the others,"
replied her sister, parrying the question. " They
can take care of themselves. And as for Neddy
Maclure, he ought never to have presumed  his
punishment is only what he deserves. But
Walter,  you encouraged him, flattered him,
set yourself out to please him every time you
went to the house  which you did whenever
nothing else amused you more,  and you knew
all the time that he was of the same blood as
you yourself  your equal in everything except
mere fortune, and that there was nothing to
prevent his putting his own construction on
your behaviour towards him. How can you
wonder that he should misunderstand ? "

*'I do not wonder at all. He showed his
appreciation."

' If you had seen him as I did when I broke
it to him, you could not be so heartless. Marjorie,
you have disturbed his quiet, hindered
him in his profession, and shaken his faith in

women,  can you think of all this, and speak
as you do ? '

Kate, what things you do say ! You do
exaggerate so. Now, you stand there like a
Gorgon ready to devour poor me ! As Rupert
says, you have a great deal of the ' old Adam ' in
you still. I do wish you would let me manage
my own affairs. I never asked you to interfere
between me and Walter,  nor did he."

Indeed she was heartily vexed at being baulked
of a tender parting, and of her cousin's coming
by-and-by to be her resource at Carnochan when
no one else was there,  to paint her over andover
again, as the two had agreed should be
done in those halcyon days to the poor boy,
when she had sat before him instinct with every
grace and outward charm, irradiating his little
dingy studio, and seemingly willing to be shining
there for him, and for him alone. At odd hours
the silent worship of her artist cousin had been
quite to Marjorie's mind ; and she had provided,
as she thought, a good store of it, which should
come in again presently on dull and rainy days.
It was too bad of Kate to put in her oar. She
might at least have left her Walter, considering
that she had  stolen Rupert.

CHAPTER XXXIV.

AN Interview IN WHICH NO ONE BEATS ABOUT
THE BUSH.

Sincerity is a most compendious wisdom, and an excellent instrument
for the speedy despatch of business. It is like travelling in a plain beaten
track, which commonly brings a man sooner to his journey's end, than
byways in which men lose themselves."  Tillotson.

It will be borne in mind that everything
Evelyn had heard of or from the Newbattle
family during his term of absence, had served
to corroborate Pollaxfen's story.

He had corresponded uninterruptedly with
his mother  greatly to that lady's delighted
astonishment  hoping against hope, as every
mail arrived, that it might contain some tidings
which should show that the hasty step he had
taken had been a mistaken one ; but none had
ever come. On the contrary, every effusion of
Lady Olivia's contained about that time, some

special reference to Kate's illness. The illness
was real, being no unnatural outcome of all that
had been undergone by one whose health and
strength had barely been re-established ere they
had again to be severely taxed, and who, on her
return home, had been ill fitted to find there
only new and distressing varieties of trial. An
easy and quiet life had been absolutely required,
and the very reverse alone had been obtained.
The consequence had been a fresh breakdown ;
and the whole had been made much of, and put
forward by Lady Olivia for reasons which, as
they have been already hinted at, need not further
be enumerated. Directly her pen was in
her hand, she fell into the vein, and Evelyn
was treated to " dear Kate's state of health,"
long after dear Kate was walking about again
as well as ever.

He had accepted it all, and told himself that
he had looked for nothing else.

He had tired of a military life, had left the
service, and had set off homewards without any
definite object in view,  or so he had imagined,
but it is possible that underlying the yearning
desire to return to his native land, which
had increased at length to such a point as to

make him act upon it despite the remonstrances
of his less fortunate brother-officers, it might
have been that at the root of all lay still one
spark of mingled hope and regret unquenchable.

How amazed was he, then, to find his lost
love, the ailing girl. about whom his mother had
been so plaintive, the fragile creature whom
fancy had painted, drooping, and perchance
already preparing for an early grave,  how
could he believe his senses on finding the subject
of such sorrowful musings being brought
out as one of the stars of the London season !

He had never forgotten her ; his passion
needed no rekindling. But had it done so,
beholding Kate, as he now did, with all her
early promise of infinite beauty fulfilled, without
a charm missing,  no more would have
been needed. From the first hour of reunion
he was hers.

He had then resolved to find out for himself
how matters really stood; but such investigations
on so delicate a ground proved to be
scarcely feasible. Who was he to ask 1 What
was he to say 1 Sometimes the answers he received
in reply to carefully-prepared speeches
were so ominous to his ears, that he himself

started aside from the topic he had introduced,
in terror of what might be coming next.

No ; he could not bear to be told in plain
terms the truth. He would wait and watch, 
and the result had been continual fluctuations
of opinion. Like a man of sense, he had at
once perceived that it would be folly to take
any account of Miss Newbattle's behaviour in
his presence, until some sort of understanding
had been established between them ; and accordingly
he had, as we have seen, quickly accomplished
the explanation which was to relieve
her of embarrassing reminiscences. He had
then thought to see clearly.

But who can rid himself of suspicion ?

A thousand trivial circumstances that at no
other time would have had even a passing
attention, now carried weight. A word let
drop would be brooded over for hours.

Lady Olivia had but to whisper, "Don't
disturb Kate ; '' Marjorie had but to throw up
her little hands, wag her head knowingly,
and cry, '' How shall we tell Kate 1 " and the
phrases seemed pregnant with terrible meaning.

If Miss Newbattle came in hot and flushed,
he fancied her eye wild; if she talked, as she

did at times, with that brilliant dramatic effect
which invariably made Lady Olivia bridle and
look around for applause, he durst not answer
her. He trembled to let it be seen how her
words moved him. Marjorie's sparks of small
pleasantry would die out to their last glimmer
when Kate was at her best, and every eye and
ear would be drawn towards her alone. Then
would come the other mood. As though the fire
had spent itself,  had burned out, and left no
glow, no warmth behind,  the strange creature
would hang her head, and sit silent for hours
afterwards, in melancholy, brooding silence.
Who was to tell Eupert that he was the cause ?
that she was hungering and thirsting for some
kind word or look from him who had once been
so keenly appreciative ? and that when none
came, and when, with cold, unmoved face, he
heard and took no part in all, the plaudits
and laughter sounded harshly in the retrospect 1
He only saw what he saw  a temperament
fitful and variable as the winds, a fragile frame,
a girl whom he had once loved, and who had
loved him to her own hurt ; and ignorant ashe
now was of the state of her heart, he felt
that it was not for him to venture all at once

upon the tender ground he longed to tread.
He could not again risk a mental shock, he
told himself repeatedly, and resolved to control
his desires, at whatever cost to himself.

But it must be confessed that, as the days
rolled on, his patience gave way. Again and
again he was ready to fling aside prudence,
caution, every hindering sentiment, and heart
and soul enter the lists wherein he daily saw
others competing ; but so surely as this happened,
something occurred within the next
hour or so to upset all again, and once more he
would be left in the dark, afraid to face the disclosures
which the light might have in store.

Pollaxfen's last effort brought matters to a
climax. He was on the verge of knowing all
when he implored Kate to tell him the cause
of her brother-in-law's persistent enmity ; but
the end of that interview had again been sorrowful.
No, he could not.

However, to go on as he had been doing of
late, was not now to be thought of ; and having
obtained from Marjorie all that she knew, he
was off to have it confirmed by Mademoiselle.
Should the governess be explicit, and her information
appear to be founded on substantial

grounds  hey for the bonnie woods of Car-nolan,
and the hours he would have among
them ! He would no longer hold back, but
set to work on the instant to woo and win.

He laughed at his own presumption, as he
told himself it should be to woo and win.

He was not a vain man ; but he had always
been successful, and why should he be unsuccessful
now 1 He could not by any reasoning silence
the instinct within, which was jubilant at the
prospect now before him. At last there was
something he could do  some step he could
take. After all the inactivity, the dumbness,
the standing aside to which he had been condemned
of late, he was once more upon the
road, pressing forward.

He had been, as we said, in Chirk Street the
night before his northern start, and something
of all this had been visible,  that is to say, there
had been an interest, an animation, a lingering by
the side of Kate, and a softness of air and tone
whenever she was addressed, which the one
sister had almost sunk under, and which had
fairly betrayed him to the other.

Marjorie saw that she had lost, and that Kate
had won ; and though it cannot be said that her

heart suffered, her vanity, her consequence, and
her spirits did.

She could have liked Eupert better than anyone,
had he chosen her.

As he had not, she  could do without him.

But, under such unflattering circumstances,
she felt that she must really outweigh the big
fish in the neighbouring creel by a host of a
smaller fry in her own. She must go in for
quantity instead of quality. All the Eddies,
and Eddies, and Walters that she could count
over as her own, might surely be considered
equivalent to one Evelyn.

And therefore, when defrauded by Kate on
all sides,  when she was not allowed to have
the sturgeon, and when another hand had tossed
back the smelt into the water  that is to say,
when Eupert had been carried away from her,
and she had been forced to let Walter go free,
she felt that it was a hard case.

Throughout the homeward journey she was
fretful and peevish, would not have her cup
of tea when the others did, and wanted to eat
when there was no prospect of a stoppage.
Then she must needs lie down on the sofa
opposite to where Lady Olivia reclined, and

make believe to be asleep. They only wished
she had been. In ten minutes she was up
again, fidgeting hither and thither ; vexed
with herself for getting travel-soiled, and with
her maid for leaving her dressing-bag behind ;
particularly anxious  or so it seemed to her
sister  to look trim and spruce on their arrival
in Liverpool.

This must all, then, be on Eupert's account,
since he was to meet them there.

If so, and if his feelings were reciprocal,
how little it signified that one of the other
travellers was pale and sad. He had been
cruelly kind the night before, and had set
Kate thinking through all the short, light
July night afterwards,  and now, unable to
dwell on any other subject, unable to keep
from recalling those hurried glances, those
strange expressions, she felt that just for once
she would give herself a little licence. Just
for once she might give the reins to fancy
and remembrance. Why not ? She had no
proof that there was anything between him
and her sister  still less had she any reason
for supposing that a union between them

VOL. III.

would have tended to happiness. She would
let Marjorie alone.

And so, with nothing in the world to do but
sit still and watch one fair pastoral landscape
after another come and go, she gazed and
dreamed. In that leafy lane she might have
watched for Evelyn ; by that limpid streamlet
she might have stood with him ; through
those laden orchards, and level meadows deep
in grass, they might have roved together.

And there was nothing to be ashamed of in
her love,  the love that had been created by his,
and that had outlived it. It was, she told herself,
a poor and pitiful idea of love, to say that
it must only keep alive in the bosom when sued
for, that it must only answer to affection given.

Not so. Such love is selfish, ignoble,  at
best, but a form of gratitude. The love which
goes out towards another, not because it is besought
by him, but because he is worthy thereof,
is true, noble, disinterested, and may be harboured
in the purest heart.

I love Eupert," said Kate to herself plainly,
*' I may love him, I dare to love him. Not for
what he is, nor for what he has ever been tome,
but for what he is in himself. No one shall

ever know it ; but no one can interfere with it.
It is my right,  the right of every human being,
to love the best and the highest ; I will hold to
my right. And this I will do," added my lady,
with no small internal pomp and verbosity, 
'this I will do, satisfied that it is according
to the dictates of a clear conscience, and conformable
to common-sense and virtue." Having
thus comfortably registered which vow, the
summing up of which gave occupation and a
curious sense of fantastic pleasure for sometime,
she considered the matter disposed of.

It then became a mere duty, an absolute
necessity to go over every single thing that
had ever taken place between Rupert and
Marjorie, with a view to understanding their
position towards ' each other. Certainly, of
late he had seemed to care about making
progress less than ever; but then, that might
be because he was already sure of his footing.
Certainly, he had vexed her sister more than
once; but then Marjorie had been so soon
vexed and out of humour during the past
week. Certainly, he had held obstinately on
more than one occasion to her own side, when
every movement of the rival beauty said

"Come to me;" but then But then for

that, she had no reason to offer.

It was such inconsistencies which made her
reverie so all engrossing. She could not rid
herself of them. Seek as she would to dwell
on the scenes between Evelyn and her sister,
every thought was busy with Evelyn and
herself.

Evelyn, meanwhile, was pursuing his errand
blithely. Arrived in Manchester, he speedily
found himself driving through suburbs, villas,
and outlying villages, on his way to the present
abode of Mademoiselle Pierrepoint.

Mademoiselle was within,  probably going
through the French verbs afresh with, it was
to be hoped, a more promising pupil than
poor Marjorie had been,  and her visitor was
shown into the library by a servant who was
obviously confounded that so grand a gentleman
should ask for the governess.

During his journey he had made up his mind
what course to pursue.

It would be absurd, he saw, to attempt to
throw any other colouring than the true one
on his visit ; having to deal with a woman
who had shown herself as clever and penetrating

as Mademoiselle had done, it would be
useless even to beat about the bush. He
would stand no chance of attaining his object,
parenthetically ; and he would also be unable
to throw himself on her mercy, and close her
mouth for the future.

Accordingly, on the entrance of the brisk
little brunette, all clean collar and cuffs,  for
to these she had limited her attention, having
sufficient good-breeding not to keep him waiting
while she changed, as she longed to do,
her faded morning - dress for a better,  he
greeted her without the slightest allusion to being
in her neighbourhood, or pretence of any sort.

He " should not long intrude upon her valuable
time," he said, with excellent gravity ;
but if she could spare a quarter of an hour ? "

She was entirely at M. le Capitaine's service.

** I only returned to England six weeks ago,"
said Evelyn, who had studied how he was to
begin, in order to lose no time, for the interview
must necessarily be brief, in order to
enable him to catch his train for Liverpool, 
and in coming to London I found your late
pupils there "

'pardon. Not my pupils, Captain

Evelyn. One alone was my pupil, Miss Marjorie.
Miss Kate I never did teach ; she did
read with me French and German, and we
have a little music together, but she is not
my pupil, to be called my pupil."

It is of her I wish to speak, Mademoiselle."

"Sol Indeed r' A pause. 'you look
serious," cried Mademoiselle, quickly. '' What
is wrong? What is the matter?"

It is difficult to explain," stammered Evelyn,
finding this out, now that he had got so far;
"I  I hope I shall make myself intelligible.
Pray forgive me if I am abrupt and hasty,
but," with his usual facility for saying the
right thing, "I do not need to apologise to
you; Mademoiselle Pierrepoint will intuitively
perceive the drift of my poor explanations,
when I attempt them."

Mademoiselle bent her head delightedly.

*'I think, so far as I can see," continued
Evelyn, exchanging his suave smile for a look
of energy and concentration, "that a great 
a  a scandalous falsehood has been told about
Kate Newbattle "

Indeed f " cried his companion, with a

smack of her lips. " Vraiment ? Scandalous !

Oh, my dear Captain Evelyn ! Que je siiis 
um  um  um "  under her breath ; if he
had taken back the word, she would have been
ready to tear her hair in her disappointment.
*' Scandalous!" she whispered to herself. ''Oh,
mon Dieu I "

"Yes, scandalous," repeated Evelyn, however.
" Scandalous, and shameful to the last
degree "

''Oh! mon Dieu!" again murmured

Mademoiselle.

"And if you can assist me in discovering
the object of the scoundrel who propagated
the story (how do I know that he has not
gone to numbers of others besides me '?), I shall
not know how to be grateful enough."

'mais moi' protested Mademoiselle, rather
blankly ; " how shall I do anything '? I have
not the power, the opportunity. I am herewith
my pupil, the young Miss Grubber, 
there is only one, and she is a very nice, charming
girl, and very kind, and oh, so rich,  I
do not perceive that I can leave her; I am
only here these three months; we have begun
so nicely "

No occasion for your leaving her, Mademoiselle.

None, at least, for your leaving her
for more than the few minutes in which you
now honour me with your presence."

Oh then," cried Mademoiselle, joyfully, " I
do indeed anything you wish ; I am most happy
that you command me." Her knowledge of
English had improved so much during her six
years' residence in this country, that she now
spoke with fluency, and rarely used even an
idiom amiss. " In what way can I assist you 1 "
she added, softly.

'' By recalling all you can," said Evelyn, with
a sudden dash into the heart of the subject, " of
what passed between Mr Harold Pollaxfen and
his sister-in-law previous to his marriage. I
do not ask this," he continued, checking, by a
movement of his hand, and by an involuntary
drawing nearer to where she sat, the amazement
which he saw ready to be poured forth in words,
I do not ask this without a reason which, when
explained, will, I feel sure, satisfy any scruples
you may now have. But in asking your confidence,
your open and unreserved account of all
you observed then, I give you my word, it will
be warranted by mine  that is  hum  ha  do
you follow me ? "

Mais Old  yes." After the early compliment
to her intuitive perceptions, she would not have
owned to not following anything he chose to
say.

If I were to explain for what purpose I require
the information, my reason would inevitably
bias your version of the story. Pardon me,
but it would  it must. I wish to have all that
you can tell me, whilst you are entirely uninfluenced."


I understand," said Mademoiselle, thoughtfully.
" You are at liberty to ask me this ? "

At liberty ? If you mean authorised by
Miss Newbattle  that I certainly am not," replied
Evelyn, rather disturbed ; "but she could
not object  she could not disapprove "

I perceive. You have right on your side."
His look made her hasten, in case the request
might be recalled before she could gratify it.
"I comprehend entirely, Captain Evelyn. I
have in you entire confidence, and"  with a
charming French smile, ** I give you mine."

"You are very good," said Evelyn, curtly.
Well ? "

"What you desire to be told is about M.
Pollaxfen's admiration, tendresse, for Miss Kate,

before he was engaged to be married to her
sister,  to Alice, whom he had met first, and
whom "

Yes, yes ? "

' Patience, my good Captain Evelyn. I tell
you all. I have it now before me, as it was
then. It was more than the tendresse, than the
fancy, the being struck by a beautiful girl, and
liking to look upon her, and to speak to her 
Fui ! He would have thrown over Alice, Car-nolan,
everything, if Kate had but lift up
her little finger ! You look at me ? Yes, yes,
I know what I am talking about," nodding her
head,  " I do not speak idly. Listen : the very
first night he comes, I descend to the drawing-room
before dinner,  for I had made my toilette
and gone down, though the wind howl, and it
is all so melancholy,  because this M. Pollard
comes, and Lady Olivia wishes that everyone
should be there, that it should all be bright,
lively, vif. We are all to be merry for him,
and he comes to propose to Alice. Me comprenez
vous f This is understood. He has
met Alice before, but not Kate ''

I know, yes. Thank you, I understand

perfectly."

And Alice was not prettily, not becomingly
dressed, on that evening. She had put on some
old ball-dress in which she had been admired
at Brighton. Bah ! what might have looked
very well at Brighton  at grand assemblies and
in the candlelight  was not for Carnochan, and
a dozen people dining together in the light of
day! She appeared thus, decollete  and the
gown was dirty too  before dinner ; and she
was showing M. Pollaxfen round the windows,
I being present," continued Mademoiselle, seeing
it all before her, as a good narrator should,
'' when in comes Kate ! Ah, what a contrast !
She is all 'jn. black up to her throat, for she
was not allowed at that time to bare even the
smallest piece of her beautiful neck  but she
needed nothing. A Spanish princess "

"I know, I know. Yes," said her auditor,
with kindred enthusiasm. "Proceed, Mademoiselle,
you are doing excellently. Well ? "

He looks at her, and his heart falls dead at
her feet ! "

Evelyn laughed nervously. ' His heart ! "
he said. "But I interrupt you. More about
the heart. Mademoiselle, if you please. As much
as you like about Mr Pollaxfen's heart  so long

as you don't ask me to believe that lie has

one."

*' After that, beginning from that very night'
pursued Mademoiselle, with exceeding unction,
"he was ever on the watch. He knew when
she went up-stairs, and when she came down.
I catch him hanging about the gallery and hall
for hours, spying upon what she does, and where
she goes. He makes excuse to bring her little
offerings. And he had great opportunities too.
Captain Evelyn. His room overlooked the
porch, and from it he could see the lake, and her
favourite walk round the banks ; and so, as soon
as she had slipped away from the house  this
was at first, before she had learned herself to
dissemble "

"That, Mademoiselle, she could never learn."

Mademoiselle gave him a queer look.

I mistake the word," she said. " Pardon.
What I mean is, she learned to avoid, elude M.
Pollaxfen, after a while. But at first, so soon
as she goes, he is off after her ; not following,
but going round by the opposite path, so as to
meet negligently  what you call, by accident.
There was scarcely a minute of the day that
he knew not where she might be found. And

headaches  allons done ! Poor Lady Olivia
had headaches indeed ; but M. PoUaxfen's headaches
were always in their right place. Sunday
morning was his headache-time ; see you, Captain
Evelyn ? Kate is not strong enough to goto
church yet, and he flies up to her little room,
where the poor child retires to compose herself.
I hear him go there, the very minute the rest
have left the house ! "

You remained behind also \ "

Sometimes ; yes. The dreadful Scotch sermons,"
pleaded poor Mademoiselle ; *' and I
would not leave Kate entirely to M. Pollaxfen's
mercy. I knew why he had his headache very
well."

** And you are convinced he was really in
lover'

In love ! " raising both her hands  " in
love ! I do not know what love is if he was
not * in love.' He was iniditusite, furieusemerit
in love. And so, when, for all his pursuing her,
and hunting her, and never letting her alone, he
could get nothing but hatred, contempt "

Ah 1 " escaped Evelyn.

You understand that the love turned sour, 
il se callant. How no one else perceived this, I

cannot imagine ; to me it was so plain, that a
child might have read. I knew the very afternoon
on which he spoke out plainly ; I knew
that he must have done so, for I met her flying
from him with a look of fury  oh, she can look
like a fury, that Miss Kate ! But still I do love
her ; for was it not noble ?  she never said one
word to us all ! She may have told Alice, in
order to warn her ; but if so, Alice would not
be warned. To no one else did she ever repeat
one word. But I am there, behind her  see you.
Monsieur ; and though I hear not the words, I
see her fling him ofl" as if he was a serpent  yes,
indeed, he had gone so far;  and she breaks
from him through the little side-door of the
garden, from behind which I am looking ; I
have but just time to step out on the path, and
pass her as if I observe nothing. Then I come
inside and meet him ; and if she is like a fury,
he is a devil ! I say, ' Bon jour. Monsieur
and pass on. But I slip back again through
the greenhouses, and see the flowers, and am
close to him, while the great vine-pots hide me.
He talks to himself, and he grinds his teeth,
and then he laughs out loud, ha, ha, ha I I do
not hear the words he says, but the face, the

actions are enough. He is mad with anger
and love."

Well 1 " said Evelyn, as she paused for
breath "well?"

The very first thing that I hear when I go
down-stairs that evening is, that Alice and Mr
Pollaxfen are engaged ! He has quick made up
his mind, you see ; if he does not strike out at
once one bold stroke, all is lost,  he is fooled,
laughed at, the loser in every way. He obtains
neither the one sister nor the other, and he
loses Carnochan also. Carnochan is a beautiful
place," with a roguish glance at her companion.

And after that ? " said Evelyn, looking at
his watch. "I do not wish to hurry you,
Mademoiselle ; but time "

* Yes ; time passes when one is thus occupied,"
replied the lady, cordially. 'rand so it
was all arranged, at once. Captain Evelyn. He
is, within two hours, refused, despised  and
accepted, adored. Behold the transformation ! "

Behold it indeed I So after that, he took no
heed of Kate ? "

Pardon ; he takes as much heed as before,
but all in the opposite direction. It is now to
spite her, distress her, hold her up to ridicule

and contempt. He says things at breakfast,
luncheon, dinner. There is no more rest for the
pauvre petite than there was before, except that
she can shut herself up, and he does not persecute
her as he did, in her own room, nor out on her
walks. He does not seek her out when alone ;
but in company  and it was in company that before
she had her only respite  he can now molest.
And then he goes to Alice with his falsehoods ! "

"To Alice'' said Evelyn, thinking of the
letter Pollaxfen had shown from her. "To
Alice, yes. I want to understand how Alice
came to be so duped 1 "

You may well say duped. Alice  bah ! 
she believed because she was determined to believe.
All her life long, from her very infancy,
she had been jealous of Kate  that, any one
could perceive ; she showed it to me, a stranger,
before I had been in the family twenty-four
hours,  and she was frightened  oh, she was
very much frightened  at what had been going
on. Then he comes to her and says it is alla
farce, a little play,  that he has been making:
believe, in order to find out that he is beloved
: ah. Captain Evelyn ! what will not men
say under such circumstances ? " observed Mademoiselle,

sentimentally. "Alice lets it out tome
when I am with her in confidence afterwards
; and she is, oh, so much pleased to show
that Kate has been mistaken f She asks if it is
not amusing that Kate should even have come
and complained to her ? She is not angry with
Kate, she assures me ; she is only sorry because
she is afraid her poor sister may do the same
again, and may get into difficulty. I find that
she says whatever M. Pollaxfen tells her to say;
and he has told her that Kate is fanciful and
vain, and inclined to think herself run after 
the poor child who had never been run after by
any one in her life ! " (Evelyn smiled.) *rand
Kate has no chance of telling the truth. Because
why ? She will only make mischief if

she is credited ; and if not " Mademoiselle

shrugged her shoulders.

So then Alice really believed that Kate had
been behaving in an extraordinary and unaccountable
manner '? "

"I do not know what she believed; I only
know what she said'' replied Mademoiselle,
cautiously.

'' Did you'' said Evelyn, with a marked and
significant emphasis  'did you, Mademoiselle,

VOL. III. p

at this time, or at any other time, ever observe
in Miss Kate Newbattle's behaviour anything
at all peculiar ? Did you consider that she ever
spoke, or acted," slowly, "in a way that was
inconsistent with  with moderation or  or propriety,
under the circumstances ? "

Eh hen ? Non, vraiment'' responded Mademoiselle,
surprised. " I see nothing inconsistent
nor peculiar about her. Never,  not at anytime.
She behaved very upright, very honourable,
very wonderful, I think. Do not you ?
I am sorry for her with all my heart, poor girl,
for she met with no return but unkindness, suspicion,
malveillance. As for her, she had no
blame."

Evelyn breathed a sigh of relief. His head
had sunk down between his hands, but now he
raised it. " Thank you," he said  " thank you,
from the bottom of my heart, for your frankness.
One question more  though it is merely
a secondary one, my chief object in coming
being now attained. However, I should just
like to know if you think Mr Pollaxfen ever
spoke of the matter to any one else?"

Not to Lady Olivia ; of that I am sure."

** Was he likely to have gone to any other

person  any one at a distance, without means
of knowing the truth,  was he cunning enough
to impose on a comparative stranger, and reckless
enough to attempt it, without having any
object ? "

"Yourself?" said Mademoiselle, astutely.
'mais Old, Captain Evelyn  cunning enough,
and reckless enough ; but ' without having an
object'? C'est autre chose. I think it is just
possible that he had an object."

Our blasted hopes, our aims and wishes crost,
Are worth the tears and agonies they cost."

Essays in Rhyme.

So there he had it all as clear as day, and not
all the hope that he should forthwith get the
better of Pollaxfen could entirely make up for
the certainty that so far Pollaxfen had got the
better of him.

Oh why had he not gone to Carnochan ?

Pollaxfen had been too sharp for him. His
repeated reference to Alice, and her written
allusion to her sister, which he had produced
fresh on its receipt, had been the best cards in
his hand, and he had played them to win ; for
Evelyn, ever ready to think the best of people,
had little dreamed that the girl he had found
so amiable and simple  or whom he had been

willing to believe so, for he could now recall
various occasions on which he had found her
otherwise  could lend herself to be the fool of
a malignant backbiter.

He was now beside himself  or would have
been, but for the prospect of a certain meeting
at seven o'clock. That tempered the affliction.
He would not suppose himself beloved, but he
had a conviction that no one else was so ; and
he hoped, he longed, he panted to regain the
place he had once held.

Meantime, however, he must, as in duty bound,
satisfy his present companion.

She had exhausted her own stores, and was
eager to replenish them. From whom had he
received a hint ? Who had put him on her
track 1 What had M. Pollaxfen's old love affair
to do with things of to-day ?

I imagine," said Evelyn, " that the unlucky
bridegroom having been, as you say, Mademoiselle,
deeply and speedily impressed by your
ah  by the  the second Miss Newbattle's
personal charms himself, considered that everyone
she fell in with, would probably smart under
a like experience. He wished then, we will
suppose, to spare me "

The monstre ! ''

The scorpion, or centipede, rather. We can
hardly make a monster out of such a little poisonous
asp. He came to ask me to be his best
man at the wedding, and he hung about me in
town for nearly a week. I endured him for 
for  well, of course, he was entering a family
with whom I was closely connected, and I was
bound to be civil."

'' Ah 1 So ? He feared Kate would be happy
with you''

Or I with Kate ? " said Evelyn, laughing and
reddening. ' That was it. Mademoiselle. And
since I passed over the innuendos with which
he in the beginning merely wanted to prejudice
me against her, he thought he would go a step
further."

'naturally," assented Mademoiselle. *naturally."


At last he became very much excited, and
in the heat of the moment gave out, I suspecta
great deal more than he had at first meant
to do ; but, having said it, he had to stick toit.
He told me precisely what you say he
told Alice, only he painted in coarser colours.
He asserted that his bride had been nearly lost

to him ; that the breach between the two had
been wantonly made by her sister ; and that
it had been only not irreparable, because both
were convinced that the poor enamoured girl
was  was  I  I can't say it."

He got up and walked away.

Was what V demanded Mademoiselle, clasping
her hands and rising also to her feet, with
her intense delight in the scene. '' Mon cher
Captain Evelyn, you hesitate '?"

He turned almost fiercely.

' Crazed," he said. " Imbecile. Insane. 
declared it ; Alice's letter pointed to it ;
every word afterwards that was written or said,
seemed to confirm it. I was deceived on every
hand."

"Ah that I had known 1" said Mademoiselle,
compassionately. " But you,  what was it to
you ? You did not then know your sister 
not that she is your sister "

He wished to prevent my knowing her,
don't you see ? " said Evelyn, hurriedly, " and
all these years she has been in my mind  and
how do I know but in that of others too  as a
poor distraught creature ;  well, never mind,
that is not to the point. You will understand,

Mademoiselle, that it was to clear off this
suspicion, with whomsoever it exists, that I
was obliged to request your information. To be
once whispered about  to be called insane "

' Captain Evelyn," said Mademoiselle, solemnly.
'' I now understand altogether. Then
listen to me. If Kate Newbattle is or ever
was insane, may you, and I, and all we love,
be touched with the same insanity ! I am buta
poor, frail woman myself," with a genuine
tear in her eye, and ineffable pathos in her tone,
but I know how to admire, adore nobleness.
When this poor misused Kate takes her place
among the saints of heaven, may she intercede
for us," sobbed Mademoiselle, forgetful that she
was a Protestant  a descendant of the persecuted
Vaudois  when she was in Manchester, 
'' may she remember those who were her friends,
though far, oh far beneath her, here ! Since so
high, so holy a position is before her, I do not
grudge the dear Kate all that she has suffered.
Not in vain were her sad hours. No, I take
not from her one tear  one pang."

Evelyn took her hand ; he could not speak.

So ? " said Mademoiselle, softly" so 1 "

Even so, my good friend. Wish me Godspeed

; and if your wishes are as efficacious as

your memory and your observation " lie

tried to smile, but his lips were trembling.

But see," said Mademoiselle, " has she had
more then to bear ? This too ? "

She has had more to bear than you can
conceive,  more than I dare to think of. God
forgive us all ; her father who neglected her,
my mother who ill-treated her, I who forsook
her, Pollaxfen who blackened her. Yes indeed,
Mademoiselle, I mean all I say; so far I will
tell you,  for you have shown that you deserve
to hear secrets,  I had already met Kate and
won her love, and we had parted, before I heard
Pollaxfen's story. Do not ask me more, for to no
one have I told so much ; but that is the simple
truth. Excuses I might offer in abundance ; but
as I cannot accept them myself, neither can I
ask you to do so. A time may come "

"Yes, indeed," cried Mademoiselle, joyfully.
'' A time may come,  must come  shall come.
Courage, mon ami, the past years have not
been wasted ; you will yet win your bride ; and
you will receive her improved in cheerfulness,
in piety, in her French accent and modulations
"

Oh, stop ! " said Evelyn, laughing ; " if she
have attained those, I shall have nothing left to
desire. I must be off. Mademoiselle, you have
shown yourself a very father confessor in the
matter of silence ; you told no one but Bertha,
who told Marjorie, who told me  the house that
Jack built, you see,  well, all I want to say is,
that if Miss Newbattle after this be favourable
to me," taking refuge in formality  " or indeed,
either way, I shall feel bound to inform you; and
and I know I have your good wishes and
sympathy, whatever happens. Good-bye. Many,
many thanks."

It took him all the time he had at command
to get back to the Victoria Station before the
train left. He was just not too late, however,
reached Liverpool in time to make all arrangements
before the London express came in, and
was awaiting it on the platform at the appointed
hour.

Two pairs of eyes were severally and furtively
on the look-out.

He might be Kate's, but he should still give
to Marjorie some of his attention and company ;
and accordingly, all the well-known airs and
graces were in immediate operation.

"Please, my shawl, Eupert. No, I have no
bag, thank you ; that tiresome Coleman forgot
it. Am I a fright '? Is my hair tumbling
down ? We are so hot and stupid ; I do hope weare
not to be obliged to scamper off down to the
boat before we have had a moment's quiet, and
before we have made ourselves fit to be seen ? "

On this point she was reassured instantly.
The " Countess of Galloway," Eupert had found
out, was on that evening not to start for an
hour later than advertised, owing to  he did
not know what ; he had, however, been down
to see, and that was the intelligence received.
Accordingly, he had ordered dinner at the
Delphi, had engaged rooms, and thought
they would all be glad of the two hours' rest,
to say nothing of the refreshment.

It appeared that the latter was just what
Marjorie did not want.

The moment she was informed of what had
been done, he was scolded for his pains. She
turned up her lips at the bare mention of
dinner. Who wanted a great hot dinner '?
Always the stupidest thing in the world ; and
just then, when everything was tiresome and
disagreeable, to have to sit down to dinner

would be the climax of misery. She wanted
to walk about and see the place. She had
heard so much of the Liverpool Docks and the
river Mersey ; and why, at any rate, should they
be condemned to keep within doors on that
frizzling summer evening?

We have a glorious summer night before us,"
answered Evelyn, with a ring of anticipation in
his voice that did not find an echo within any
other breast. " Keep up your spirits, Marjorie ;
you will see the Docks and the Mersey, and all,
from the deck of the * Countess of Galloway,'
for I daresay none of us will go below till weare
past the Isle of Man. Now then. Is that
all?"

He had handed each out as he was speaking ;
and, as Lady Olivia's man and maid were busy
clearing away parcels and packages inside the
carriage, he was about to escort the ladies to a
fly, when Kate, uttering an exclamation, darted
back through the open door, and pounced on
something which had fallen beneath the seat on
which she had been sitting.

'' Is that your ticket ? " said Evelyn. " Have
you not given it up ? " He had not addressed
her before, studiously turning to his mother and

Marjorie ; but her startled air and sudden movement
now made him think there might be something
in which he could render assistance.

*' It was not my ticket, thank you." She was
attempting to thrust the thing, whatever it was,
into her pocket as she spoke : but the pocket
was difficult to find among the frills of a thin
summer gown ; and who shall portray the feelings
of the unlucky maiden when, in springing
again off the step, her eye, simultaneously with
Evelyn's, fell on a small square white packet in
the act of slipping through a treacherous plaiting
which had no bottom *? In vain she put
out her hand,  the next instant it had fallen
between the carriage wheels ; and oh, how devoutly
did she hope that it had fallen out of
reach as well as out of view ! For what is it ?
The little cardboard-book, containing the rose,
bound by the spun thread.

It had escaped from her bosom, where it had
lain so well concealed all those years, to betray
her thus I She had opened the fastenings at
her throat on account of the sultriness of the
atmosphere; and somehow or other, in her hasty
rearrangement of collar and ribbon, as the train
neared Liverpool, she must have jerked it out

the shiny folds of her dress had arrested it nowhere,
and it had eventually reached the floor.

It was now apparently lost. Bad enough,
that,  but oh, agony of agonies, Evelyn was
projecting a rescue ! Anything, anything rather
than that he should be the one to discover what
the missing valuable was, and, furthermore, bethe
one to bring it to her ! Certainly nothing
was visible from where she stood, and she would
not indulge herself in searching with her eye,
confining all her energies towards preventing
any one's descending ; but how unfortunate that
there should be room at all for a man to go
down ! It was certainly dangerous ; and, " Pray,
pray, don't go," she cried. " It is nothing, really
nothing to trouble about. Oh, Eupert," catching

his arm, " don't think of such a thing ."

He had jumped down, laughing as she spoke :
he had no idea of what he was going to find ;
but since it was evidently some treasure on
which considerable store was set, or so much
perturbation would not have been evinced, he
was not going off, leaving it behind. Why
should he "? There was no hurry, and he liked
doing something for Kate. Down he jumped,
and put his head under the carriage.

VOL. III. Q

'* I tell you it does not matter' reiterated the
poor girl, in desperation. *show can you be
so  oh, Marjorie, he is so very foolish ! There
is nothing to make him put himself in such
danger,  it is sheer madness "  turning away,
unable to bear the moment.

Considering that the train can't well go off
without smashing down the whole station," said
Marjorie, scornfully, *' he is, indeed, in imminent
danger. Don't be a goose, Kate. And don't
make a scene. Here he is, safe and sound, with
not even a bone broken."

*' And nothing to show for it," said Evelyn, appearing
from beneath. "Thanks, Madge, I can getup
all right. As it was not your ticket, Kate, I
suppose it was nothing that very much mattered?"

By his look, his mien, she knew that he had
not searched in vain. He had found, and secreted,
and understood. She could only bow
her head,  she could not utter a word.

She got quite a fright," said Marjorie. " She
thought a great big engine would come up and
say ' Boh ! ' in your ear when you were down
amongst the bogies. I could not persuade her
that she should ever see you return to the land
of the living."

Not IN VAIN WERE HER SAD HOURS. 243

'' Yoii were not alarmed, then ? " He was
walking forward, leading the way with her,
whilst her wretched sister tottered along by
herself behind. " You would have been quite
resigned to seeing your poor squire torn to
pieces before your eyes ? " continued Evelyn,
scarcely knowing what he said, and only feeling
that he must say something, and must keep
himself from saying it to his other companion.
You are a very cool sort of person, Madge.
I believe you would have emulated the queen
of the tournament who threw her favour to be
picked up by her knight from among the wild
beasts."

*' Oh no ; my knights are too many, for any
single one to be of sufficient worth. I might
throw them ' a scatter,' such as used to be done
for us children, and see which survived, perhaps.
But as for you, you were acting knight for Kate,
not for me,  and much you made of it I Risked
your reputation as a good finder, if you risked
nothing else, and lost even that ! "

Lady Olivia wondered what had kept them
all, but was quite satisfied, though nobody told
her. She was the only one who really endeavoured
to make herself agreeable at this juncture

 no one of the others thinking of or caring
for aught but his or her own concerns.

And for two, at least, the excuse was sufficient.
Evelyn was in a tumult of joy Kate
of shame and grief

It seemed to her as though one short ten
minutes before, she had been almost happy.
She had certainly been composed, steadfast,
mistress of herself, and able to face the future,
if not with glad hopes and bright anticipations,
at least with fortitude and resolution.

Vain was all now. He knew. Her weakness,
her folly had been made manifest ; and all
her late philosophical justification of the feeling
she entertained for Evelyn withered up under
the breath of this humiliating, agonising revelation.
Years had passed ; and he had wished
the old story forgotten, and had called on her
to blot out the past ; and she had to all appearance
agreed, and had let him suppose that no
deeply cherished remembrance was ever again
to hang about her heart and haunt her dreams ;
she had kept her secret so that none had ever
guessed it : but now, ah now, what must he
think ?

He had saved her as much as he could. He

had either left the relic where it was, or had
hidden it about his own person. In either case,
by the very act, by the quickness with which
he had come to a conclusion concerning its disposal,
he had shown how much he thought of
it. It had told its own tale, and told it instantaneously,
 since he had not been out of their
sight for more than a minute  an awful minute.

She wondered how she moved, and talked,
and sat up by Lady Olivia's side, upright, and
showing nothing amiss, as they drove to the
hotel.

Evelyn walked  another piece of consideration.
He would not face her, would not be at
the door in time to hand them out. That, at
least, she was to be spared. Yes, he was always
kind, always thoughtful, had always the finest
sense of what would please or pain.

Only once he had been at fault, and she
would not think of that. She would gather
together all her energies for the present, swallow
her bitter pill as best she could, and resolve
that for the next few hours, at any rate, she
would not yield a thought to repining. Afterwards
 oh, she could hardly bear to think of
what solitude must bring I

Must he henceforth look upon her as a sickly
sentimentalist, or a lovelorn damsel 1 Which
was the worst, which the most humbling  the
most abasing 1 Trying not to think, it seemed
as though she had never thought so fast and
furiously in her life.

And Marjorie had perhaps never before been
so pertinacious and exacting in her demands on
her sister's attention, as she was during the
next half hour. Kate's eye, ear, and hands,
were wanted incessantly. She must do this,
and do that ; and she was called upon for
something or other every half-minute. What
had become of the tail-comb ? Where had her
chatelaine been laid down ? What was to be
done without a pin-cushion ?

The contents of the one travelling-bag were
turned out before her ; the glass and the wash-hand-stand
were given up to her ; and yet she
went on.

''Oh do be quiet ! '* said poor Kate at last.
*' Take what you want ; I have given you everything
; I can do no more."

How cross you are ! I am tired as well as
you, but I don't sit with my head against the
bed-post, moping."

Meeting no response, she resumed, " Perhaps
it was as well that we had not to go on all at
once. Rupert did his best, I daresay ; and at
least it is something only to get clean again.
These summer journeys are so tiresome. Why
don't you set to work, Kate ? You will be late.
You have not done a thing, and here am I all
ready ! "

As soon as you go, I will begin."

"Just what you always say. You are the
most unpunctual creature in the world ; and it
all comes of putting off, and putting off. The
water will be quite cold in the basin "

*' So much the better."

Well, I shall go. Come, show me the .
I have forgotten which it is."

*' The last but one, I think ; but I forget, too.
Go in next door, and Coleman will find it for
you."

'' Oh, nonsense ! Tm sure you know. It is
only that you are lazy, and can't be troubled to
rise. Come, get up ; it will do you good to
make the effort. At any rate, we can poke out
the room together. I can't go poking about by
myself."

Her sister rose wearily.

*snow, then, you ask," whispered Marjorie,
as they saw a group of attendants at the far end
of the gallery; and she found it a good joke, after
they had traversed the entire distance, to be
conducted to the door precisely opposite that
which they had just quitted.

At last Kate was free to sit down and sigh.

It was something to have even that momentary
exemption from her taskmaster, and to be
allowed to lay her head again upon the friendly
bedpost, and moan. Further than that she
durst not give way,  fresh trials were awaiting
her close at hand, and only a brief interval
could be conceded to silence, and an inner cry of
the sore spirit for help and strength from above.
But she was thankful even for that respite.

Evelyn was in the sitting-room with the other
two, and the soup and fish were already on the
table, when Kate appeared.

"All so nice," said Lady Olivia, chastity.
Come, Kate, we have waited for you, but we
must put off no longer. We have just an
hour, Eupert says. We must start at half-past
eight."

*that will be doing it comfortably," said
Rupert. "James is on the spot now, and the

captain is to send him up, if there be the slightest
chance of their getting off sooner."

Most thoughtfully arranged," protested his
mother. " I do not know what we should have
done without Eupert ; do you, girls ? This soup
is really very good, and so are the nice little
rolls."

And so is the nice little sunset,  getting upon
purpose," put in Marjorie. " Ho, Kate, you
have got a glory round your head I Look,
mamma ! look, Eupert ! does she not remind
you of the pictures of the saints ? "

Yes," said Eupert, in rather a low tone, 
very much."

It seemed to Kate that he spoke compassionately,
tenderly ; and her heart swelled at the
thought, " He only pities me ; he is so kind
and good,  he does not blame nor sneer at my
absurdity, nor yet feel elated at my expense."

"And now it has died away," cried Marjorie.
And now that Kate is no longer encircled by
a halo of sanctity, we can perceive that she hasa
very tumultuous head of hair, and that one
plait is coming down."

Kate raised her hand.

That touched her up," continued Marjorie,

in a tone expressive of ' for all that she affects
not to care, she is mundane beneath." " That is
not the side, madam " she went on, aloud. *now
how do you suppose it is going to keep up, just
because it is tucked in beneath the rest ? It
may do so till after dinner ; but you must go to
Coleman before we start."

All through the meal she plied her sister with
questions and comments ; as fast as Evelyn,
who neither looked at nor spoke to his right-hand
neighbour, introduced fresh topics, Marjorie
handed them, as it were, across the table.
He thought her possessed. Even Lady Olivia
was not allowed to take any share in the conversation,
while Kate was being perpetually
forced to speak. He was not to know that it
had become visible at length to the young lady's
perceptions that there was something wrong of
which she had not been told,  that her sister
was suffering, and Rupert was trying to shield
her ; and that this mysterious bond between the
two was, to her, the outsider  the one whom
neither had appealed to, nor taken into confidence
 instigating to annoyance and petty tyranny.
What right had that silly Kate to look
so wan and woe-begone, and sit without opening

her lips ? What was it to Eupert if she did,
that he must needs constitute himself her champion
1 Were they not having it all their own
way ? And was it not she who ought rather to
have been pitied and petted,  she who was
going away from every one of those who cared
for her, and to whom she had just said " Farewell
" for many a day to come '? Kate surely had
nothing to complain of; yet she caught Eupert
eyeing her sister's bent head, whenever he thought
no one was looking his way, in a manner that
showed there was something underneath.

She felt that he exerted himself to amuse the
other two, solely that the one for whom he was
really concerned might be freed from importunity.
Much he cared, or they either, for the
improvements, the emigrant-ships, and all the
valuable information which he brought lustily
to the front ! As fast as she repelled his batteries,
he charged her with fresh ones,  it was
all done with a purpose.

And of all things, it was insupportable that
she, Marjorie Newbattle,  who had lately been
having nothing but flattery and adulation served
out to her in unstinted measure,  should be
placed in so atrocious a position. By holding

her peace and eating her dinner, she would indeed
far better have sustained her dignity than
by drawing down upon her head the vituperations
of the sufferers ; but that was just what
her provoked and purblind spirit was slow to
perceive,  she felt bound, as she thought, to
vindicate her rights, and assert herself somebody;
and accordingly, she chattered, flourished, and
whisked about from one subject to another, saying
every single thing she could think of to vex
her sister and put Evelyn out of countenance,
till both of them heartily wished her anywhere
else, and were almost equally thankful when the
repast was over.

To Kate its durance must have been trying
in any case ; but she owed an increase of wretchedness
to Marjorie. It was Marjorie who twice
pointed out that her plate went away untouched ;
Marjorie obliged her to speak, when articulation
was hardly possible ; Marjorie called their stepmother's
attention to her state.

And oh, your hair ! '' cried she, at length.
Go at once, Kate, to Coleman, or you will be
too late." (Rupert should not have the chance
of keeping guard in that preposterous way any
longer at present.) " Coleman really must attend

to you, my dear' she asseverated, 'for I do
assure you that go as you are, you cannot ; you
are not fit to be seen."

The command opened an avenue for escape,
which was embraced only too gladly. Coleman,
however, already bustling about, collecting, folding,
and by no means inclined for hair-dressing,
needed all the sight of the patient, pale face, to
prevent an outburst of remonstrance.

"Lor', Miss Kate," she cried, moved to pity.
Do tell ! you're ill now, aren't you ? Whatever
is the matter "? Is it the railway ? or," confidentially,
" are you afraid of the sea ? I would
go with you by train. Miss, that I would," continued
she, with a brisk thought for herself, since
she hated steamboats and smells, as she had
already told James. '* Do say now ; shall I go
and see about it 1 "

But the overture was not accepted, and the
dark plait was fastened up again, and all stray
locks brushed smoothly down, without any
excuse being offered for the heavy eyes and
sorrowful brow they shaded. Even a second
friendly offer  that of " drops "  was declined.


"We are off' said Marjorie, coming in.

Eupert goes with mamma and me, and mamma
says will you follow with Coleman when you
are ready? There is no need to hurry, but
mamma insists on going now. Coleman, will
you go to her 1 Oh, Kate, do just look me over.
Am I all right ? Have I got everything ? Will
you look round after we are gone ? "

That, her sister thought, might be left to the
maid. As soon as the sounds of departure died
away, she rose, resolved to return to the deserted
sitting-room, to be away from the coming and
going of the attendants, and to have another
few minutes' breathing-space in which to drop
the mask. It might be long ere she could snatch
another moment's solitude, and the strain on
every faculty which must be persevered in for
many hours to come, was terrible to think of.
She would not think. But at least she would
be alone ; and alone, might dare to be herself.
She hurried across the passage.

Oh the relief! Yet the next moment she
repented having indulged in it.

The place where he had sat, from which she
had every little while met his eye, whence his
kind voice had seemed in every syllable to intercede
for mercy on her behalf,  for an end to be

put to the senseless persecution of her unfeeling
sister,  oh, it was too much !

She threw herself half out of the open window,
 it had a balcony, and was many storeys
high, so she could not be spied upon,  and gave
way at last.

Tears gushed from her eyes, sobs burst from
her lips. Her very hands were drenched, her
face disfigured, within a few short minutes.
Were she to die for it, she could not now restrain
the pent - up sluice which had broken
loose and overleapt all barriers at last. It
seemed as if every additional second made her
less able to acquire that hold upon herself
which she well knew it was so terribly necessary
must be regained almost immediately, 
for in her sharpest anguish recollection was
not obscured, but was loud in caution and
remonstrance.

All was vain.

She struggled for breath as well as for self-control.
To expose herself to the vulgar curiosity
of men and maid servants was not to bethought
of; she must be able to move when
summoned,  have strength to walk down-stairs
without exciting observation,  and steadiness of

speech wherewith to answer questions, and give
orders if need be, without her voice betraying
her.

That there had been tears, might be seen 
she supposed must be seen,  but at least a
check must be put upon the tempest which
was rending every fibre.

And she could put none.

The power was not there. Again and again
she strove to clear her face, wiping away as fast
as it rose, the blinding stream that threatened
to become a torrent,  again and again she put
forth her little hands to grasp supports which
should enable her to steady the feeble limbs,
whose trembling increased momentarily,  but
all energy of will seemed failing, resolution was
of no avail, and she was at her very worst when
the door opened.

It was not Coleman,  it was a man's step, 
and so far well. It was probably some one
come to take away the dinner things ; and
since, in that case, no demands needed to be
made upon her, she could keep her position,
with her back turned to the table and the door.
She drew a breath, and tried to let it escape
gently, and she crumpled up in her hand the

handkerchief, which was soaked through. It
was possible that nothing unusual might be
noticed.

The man came nearer, but no clatter of
dishes nor moving of chairs followed; he
walked straight up behind the breathless figure
in the window,  she had but a moment's time
for consciousness of whom it must be, and the
next he was holding her to his heart. " My
Kate! my Kate!"

VOL. III. R

CHAPTER XXXVI.

THE TURN OF THE TIDE.

Great floods have flown
From simple sources. "

Airs Well that ends Well.

She was locked in arms that could have been
none other than a lover's ; and yet so dizzy and
blind was she, and so confusing and bewildering
was the transition from that anguish, which had
been almost insupportable, to this deliverance,
which was scarce comprehensible, that the well-nigh
broken-hearted girl could only lay down
her head upon his breast, and feel as if, inclosing
her eyes there, she could be willing to
open them no more on earth.

He seemed to understand ; for some minutes
she was suffered to feel only the strain of that
mute embrace, and to dwell upon the solitary
expression which had preceded it ; and it was

she herself who first attempted to break the
spell which seemed to hold them both.

She struggled feebly to free herself.

"Stay a moment, Kate. There. It is past,
all past. Hush, lie still. . I will not
let you go. My darling," in her ear, '' mine, at
last, and for ever. I have you, and will keep
you, and none shall ever come between us more."

'' Rupert,  Rupert "

"Don't speak, Kate. Don't rise, and don't
speak. I know all that you would say."

I " she tried for more, but none came.

You wish to tell me you are all my own,
don't you'? Yes. I know it must be 'yes.'
That is the only word I will listen to just now.
Kate, I am yours, yours-only, yours wholly,
yours till death. My first, my last, my only
love. . . . Now, have you anything to say,
Kate 1 If not, be quiet and still. There are
yet a few minutes before we need go. I have
found my time at last."

She was indeed scarcely capable of releasing
herself had she wished it ; and she could not
wish it. Her sobbing lips, her streaming eyes,
were better where they were, her quivering
frame needed all the support he gave it.

And since he was obeyed, since she proved
herself amenable to the authority of her captor,
he could show himself an indulgent one. He
did not command her to be silent, and at the
same instant implore her to speak. He did not
bid her lie still, and change her position every
minute. He held her close, and was himself
motionless and mute, while the labouring
breath came and went, by slow degrees, more
evenly ; and the shuddering sighs that had at
first escaped, one by one sank away. A gentle
relaxation stole over the whole exhausted system,
 there was a long pause, a calm,  it
seemed almost as if she had passed out of the

death-struggle into the haven beyond.

 

At length,  and indeed the only wonder was
how they had been so long without interruption,
messengers burst in excited and indignant.

 Miss Kate, I thought you had been down 
oh. Captain Evelyn," said Coleman, with a sudden
change of tone ; " I  I beg your pardon,
sir' for Evelyn had barely time to loose the
form he held, ere they were detected behind the
window - curtain. ' I  I'm sure," stammered
the maid, fairly aghast at what she had discovered,

" I did not know where Miss Kate was,
and have hunted her up and down,  for they
told me she was outside, and her ladyship has
been gone full twenty minutes, and Miss Kate
and I was to follow her immediately ! "

**No fears. I have arranged to have due
warning if the boat is ready to start sooner than
she was expected to be."

But, sir 1 Sooner ! It's nine o'clock now."

Is it ? We may as well go then. Take my
arm, dear," the last words not being for Coleman,
we may be sure. " Can you walk now ? "
bending over his charge as the maid disappeared.


'* That's right. No one is here to notice. You
must face the world for a few minutes, dearest :
try to mind as little as you can ; it will not befor
long. I know how brave you can be."

As they drove down to the Docks, he strove
to divert her attention, and make self-command
less of an effort, by keeping up a vigorous
though desultory commentary on the objects
of interest they passed, renewing the subjects
started an hour before with Marjorie, but now
with what different feelings ! As he talked,
leaning over her to point hither and thither,

and ever turning round to draw forth the low
responses which met with such earnest and
immediate attention, he could pour love and
consolation into her eyes, which had nothing todo
with the long-winded, prosaic explanations.

Those were for the benefit of the third person,
who discreetly gave the two opposite only the
side and back view of her straw-bonnet, being
to all appearance engrossed with outdoor objects.
It is to be hoped she benefited by the
dissertation, for it did not do Kate much good.

It kept her quiet, however, and enabled her,
perhaps, to bear better than she might otherwise
have done, her sudden load of happiness. This
might have been almost too great, its touch
might have been too nearly that of pain, had
she been altogether able at once to realise it.

As it was, she hardly knew where she went,
or what she was doing. All consciousness of
the past and future was engulfed in the strange
present,  all other emotions lost in one. Every
touch of Evelyn's hand, every fond gaze and
impassioned murmur, carried a kind of soothing
ecstasy to her heart  not the most subtle movement,
nor the faintest inflection of tenderness,
passed unmarked,  but to all besides she was

insensible, inaccessible,  she could neither see
nor feel beyond his presence.

Not for a moment did he quit her.

Servants and baggage might find their own
way from the place where the fly drew up to
the side-dock where the little steamer was
already puffing out her smoke preparatory to the
start,  he would have nothing to do with either.

Coleman paid the driver, well aware of what
she was about, and followed, without a word, the
direction taken by Evelyn through the racketing
scene, though it was perhaps as ill-advised
a path as could well have been chosen. Coleman
was a woman of wisdom, and she had made
up her mind that she would like to stay at
Carnochan.

At length, however, her spirit did rebel on
finding herself alone in a dark lumber-shed, full
of clattering noises, and with nothing to be seen
or heard of her companions.

"And just suppose I lose the boat, all along
of them and their sweethearts ! " said she to
herself. '' No one will believe but what it is
my fault. This is real nonsense. Captain Evelyn,
and so I shall let you know when I can get at

you."

However, a civil porter coming up to the
rescue, and himself offering to conduct the helpless
abigail on board, she was restored to serenity-even
without the promised vent for her indignation.


Kate had passed through the same gloomy-waste
before her, and found the place a paradise.

It was enchanted ground whereon she trod ;
the rattle of chains and hammers, the din, the
turmoil, the hurrying to and fro, were nothing
to her ; they were lost in some guiding whisper,
some low inquiry. Every step of her progress,
every halt made or difficulty encountered, was
henceforth united to some exquisite association.
The narrow pathway, the grimy passage, the
slippery ascent, all meant some new delight ; and
even the reproachful faces of her sister and stepmother,
confronting her as she stepped at length
on board, could not destroy or awaken her from
her trance.

We have been here such a long time "  the
elder lady greeted them thus, immediately, 
that we really had begun to fear something
was wrong. I am glad to see you at last ; but
I hope you have some reason to give," looking
from one to the other.

*' A very good reason," replied her son, readily.
I found Kate quite overdone when I went
back for her, and I would not let her set off
on the instant. I knew we had lots of time''

Kate not well ? Oh, that alters the question.
But, my dear, what was the matter ?
You do not look well indeed "

She is better now. She will be all right
by-and-by," Eupert again interposed. "You
got down comfortably, I hope ? And Marjorie
saw the Docks '? What an evening ! This is buta
little boat, ma'am "

Very," said poor Lady Olivia, disconsolately.


' But," said Evelyn, " we shall do very well
when we have got our things together. Let us
find a seat to begin with."

It was plain that no more was to be said
about Kate, and the topic could certainly not
compete in interest with her own comfort, in his
mother's opinion. He had therefore no difficulty
in drawing her ofi" to the discussion of
where they were to sit, and how soon the boat
would start. The latter point was soon settled ;
the ropes were actually being unwound as he
spoke, and a few minutes later the attentive

James came round to suggest that if his mistress
would not mind coming to the steerage part of
the little vessel, she would be more comfortable
in a place that he had found for her there, than
where she was.

Evelyn inspected and approved. The whole
fore part of the boat was a vast pile of empty
boxes ; and by pulling out one or two of these
from the extreme front, a retired nook, away
from every disagreeable, and sheltered by high
banks on every side, could be converted by the
addition of rugs, wrappers, and shawls, into a
couch not unworthy of their acceptance.

He and the footman set to work, and Lady
Olivia was laughingly content.  She stepped
daintily up the steps to her throne, as she called
it : the evening was so mild and still, the air so
balmy, and the view across the water so beautiful,
that she would not think of going below for
some time. It was quite refreshing; and her
spirits,  which had rather sunk under the first
impressions of the steamer, and the absence of
her son to reason these away,  now revived.

She sat between the girls, Evelyn boldly
telling Kate to make room for him by her.

How should his mother note anything in that,

or know that lie had drawn a certain little
hand away from its rightful place, and held it
in his own, beneath the covering which was
spread over them all ? Marjorie declared the
stupid hot blanket was not needed ; but Lady
Olivia thought it gave a comfortable air to the
whole, and Evelyn assured her she was right.

He sedulously explained all that was going on.

The " Countess " took some time to get
through the narrow windings of her dock,
during which they were called upon to take
notice of all the various performances ; and
though Marjorie jeered, she could not prevent
the flow of questions and answers, nor the
genuine animation of Lady Olivia, who would
have taken interest in a dead dog, had her son
called upon her to do so.

Thus he kept his Kate quiet.

He did not ask her to look. Now and then,
when both the others had turned their heads
aside, he had his reward  he could behold and
meet the smile which his own smile had the
delightful power of drawing forth ; but, for the
most part, he left ber in peace to let her eyes
wander  through a misty veil if they would 
over the beauteous prospect.

Sitting where they did,  " from their cosy
nest,"  according to Lady Olivia, they faced
the mouth of the river, and every five minutes
brought more and more of the gleaming ocean,
with its broad horizon, into view.

How beautiful I " whispered Kate at last.
How very, very beautiful I " They were the
first words she had spoken since the party
settled down, and they were called forth by the
matchless scene which met the eye about an
hour after starting.

The sun had set some time, and a faint moon,
scarcely visible in the clear pale sky, had crept
softly up. The water lay like a sheet of glass
on every side ; here and there they passed a
becalmed vessel with its spread sails reflected,
motionless and still ; and not a sound save the
monotonous throb of their own busy wheels
broke the silence.

Is it beautiful 1 " replied Evelyn, clasping
tighter the hand he held, and unable to prevent
something of the feelings which stirred
within from entering into his tone. " I am so

glad " he stopped abruptly, afraid of saying

too much.

Afterwards, when Lady Olivia had retired to

her cabin, and the gathering dusk threw those
left behind into a shadow dark enough, he behaved
very badly to Marjorie, for he stole his
arm round the slender waist near him, right
under the unsuspecting sister's nose, and then
was by way of laying himself out to please and
amuse her ! Would she not have a shawl ? It
was not so warm as it had been, he and Kate
were quite glad of the long plaid between them.
No wonder that, all being so nicely arranged,
he was willing to let Madge stay if she chose,
and could even exert himself to keep up chitchat
with her.

Explanations could wait, while he held Kate
thus.

He was in no hurry ; they had hours of moonlight
and leisure before them, and nothing but
tranquillity around.

Who would go below on such a night ? "
cried Marjorie. " The very thought is horror.
Let us sit up till daybreak, and see the sunrise.
It will not be later than four o'clock,
and I have never been in bed before four of
late."

* As you please," replied Evelyn, rather dismayed.
" But I think you will hardly care to

sit up till four, however pleasant you might
find it to dance till then."

I detest early hours''

I detest  nothing." He laid his head back,
smiling to himself,  but when called upon instantly
to declare what he meant, had no declaration
to make.

After that, further efforts failed to rouse
him.

He had done his best for Marjorie ; but if the
result of all his well-adjusted sentences and elaborate
attentions were to be this, that she was
disposed to stay where she was till daybreak,
they should cease. He would have nothing todo
with such an idea. It was certainly not for
her to sit up, whoever did.

But perhaps Kate thought otherwise; she
was, at least, scared, and ready herself to fly,
when on a sudden Marjorie took the initiative,
and, wearied with her own ineffectual efforts,
proclaimed that both were tired, and would do
well to beat a retreat.

'' Very good," said Eupert, disengaging himself
with alacrity, and rising before his former
attitude could have been too minutely noted.
I thought you would find it so. I'll see you

down, Madge. You stay here, Kate. I shan't
be away above a minutes

"Are you not coming, Kate?" Marjorie
stood still, and looked back.

If  if somebody will help me." And her
sister endeavoured to rise.

Take care," cried Marjorie. " Take care.
What are you doing 1 You will bring all those
boxes down upon you pell-mell ! Do not be so
clumsy. There you go. Do sit still, till Eupert
helps you down."

Sit still," added Eupert, but in a different
tone. " I am not going to help you down yet
awhile. I am going to take Marjorie off, but
that is no reason why you or I should go. Let
each one please him or her self  eh, Madge ?
That's my rule," with a cool stare into her
affronted face.

And she had to be thus politely escorted off the
field, and shut up in the little dusty cabin below,
and know that he had gone back to the glittering
moonlight, and to the one he had chosen !
She had been willingly permitted to retire, but
Kate had been absolutely refused permission to
follow ! It was not very pleasant to receive his
cheerful " Good night " and think of this,  but

Marjorie had cared little enough about inflicting
such unpleasantness on others, and it was
only fair that she should have her turn. She
might frown and bite her lip as she heard him
turn and spring up the little stair again, as
though too impatient to be gone, to delay a
moment where he was ; but few will pity her.
She would have kept him even then, if she could.

And Kate was listening for that returning
footstep with her heart in her month.

A new experience had now to be gone through.
She had calmed down into something of a dreamy
state during the past hour or two ; she had
learned to look solemnly into the face of the
great marvel that had befallen her ; and she
would have been well content to have gone on
journeying thus, sunk in her own thoughts, or
listening with inward rapture too deep for expression,
to the tones of that dear voice. Other
voices might mingle with his ; Lady Olivia and
Marjorie might speak as well as he ; she was
grateful that they did, and let her be silent :
she thought she wanted no more.

Ah, but Rupert did.

Now he could not only press her to his side,
but give her all his looks, his words, his kisses.

No fears of any prying inquisitiveness from
mother or sister now ; no alarms from strangers ;
no calls to part hurriedly ; no demands to attend
to others. Only the tread of a solitary passenger,
pacing up and down the narrow line
of deck on one side their barricade ; only the
distant echoes of mirth arising at odd intervals
from a group gathered on the gangway above ;
only the sea and sky before them.

Presently calmer speech and more connected
utterances began to succeed the first impassioned
outbreak. He could dwell on the great, the
almost inconceivable surprise afforded him by the
sight of the little packet underneath the 
; on the instantaneous conviction
thereby conveyed to his mind ; on the necessity
for its immediate concealment ; next, on
the misery of seeing her suffer, and of being
unable to assure her that her grief was needless;
and finally, on the diplomacy which had secured
to them that brief meeting in the hotel parlour.
He had been unable longer to endure the thought
of what she was enduring; he had got the
others off  what excuse he had offered he could
not remember, but he had escaped from their hold,
and rushed back,  as it appeared, just in time.

VOL. III. s

On her part she could only listen, smile, and
weep.

He spoke of that terrible hour, but it seemed
to her that other hours had been scarcely less
terrible. She did not grudge their pains, did not
wish suffered one throe that had preceded
such a birth of sweetness ; all was forgotten,
all forgiven, ere he had even sued for mercy.

Gradually one thing after another dropped out.

"I have so much to say," said Evelyn.
'' Where shall I begin, and where shall I end ?
Never mind, there is all night long to say it
in. You will stay with me yet awhile, Kate,
two hours, three hours ? Numbers of people
are about, dear ; they are not thinking of going
below at all. See what a moon !  and you never
look more lovely than by moonlight. Let me see
you, Kate ; turn your face this way,  I am going
to tell you something. Since you and I parted
on the lonely Galloway shore,  the shore that
is coming into sight now, if there were light to
see it by,  I have been with beauties of many
lands, and known that they were beauties, and
admired them, and criticised them, but I have
never been able to trifle away even a passing
hour in doing homage to a woman. I have

danced with, them, sung to them, done my best
to please and even to love them ; but whenever
it came to that last point, and I would have
begun in earnest, the very first sound of my
own voice, tuned appropriately to the occasion,

sickened me. The thought of you " He

stopped.

Of me ! " whispered Kate, as though to herself,
" of me ! '

Yes, you, my heaven-sent messenger. You,
whom I had taught to love, but could not teach
to deceive. You, who had given me your
heart, and had had to take it back bruised and
wounded to your breast again. You, whom I
dreaded to think of,  I cannot explain to you
why to-night, Kate,  you have had enough to
bear already this day  and we will not enter
on what has kept us all these years apart ; you
shall hear it all by-and-by. But of this I can
solemnly assure you, my darling, I have been
faithful to your memory through it all. You
have been ever before me as I saw you on that
day when, to my amazement, you stood up
inspired with a power and strength beyond
your own, and awed me back. How you opened
my eyes, and showed me my own baseness by

the light of your nobility ! I had never dreamed
of your taking things as you did ; I thought I
was sure of you ; I had a conviction that you
were being carried along by the current, as I
was,  and even at a greater pace, for I reckoned
on all the vehement impetuosity of your nature
all the force of your strong passions  to lend
their aid. On my part, I was merely bent on
gratifying my love without having to encounter
opposition and remonstrance,  idiot that I was
it seems to be now perfectly inconceivable
that I should have minded it,  but with you,
revenge, self vindication, and pride, must all,
I felt, have been on my side. They were  I
know they were. I know I tempted you. And
you stood there, my brave, beautiful darling,
and mastered yourself and me. Your look, the
cry which sprang from you when you understood
all that my selfish proposal included ; the
little hand that would have struck me if I
had dared to touch it afterwards,  could I ever
forget it all '? At that moment only, I believe
my heart was yours. Yes, dear, it is so ; all
that had preceded it had been but a fever of
admiration and sympathy  a mingling of one
sensation with another,  but none of them

worthy of the name of love. I lost you, and as
surely as I lost, I loved. . . . Then came the
end, Kate, and that end riveted the scene upon
my heart for ever. The horror of that sight,
when I thought I had killed you ! And then
the hour that followed ! Oh, my darling, your
bleeding mouth  your dim, discoloured eyes !
Hush, hush ! I will not, then ; I will not. "
His own hands were trembling, and his voice

was breaking. It was well to pause

. . . "I hardly thought you could continue
to care for me," subjoined Evelyn, after a
time. " At first I felt almost certain that, with
you, to despise was to drive from your affections.
You must remember with what emphasis
you had invariably pointed out to me that it
was only that which in itself was worthy of
esteem and honour, which could be truly beloved
; you used to tell me this, when I was
trying to reconcile you to those who had treated
you so cruelly, young and tender as you were 

such a child . Well, never mind that ; but

was it not so 1 I remember that, whatever
might have been my private opinions, I did not
at the time care to avow them. However, by-and-by
I plucked up courage again, Kate, and

I was coming down to your sister's wedding so
gladly and hopefully, when,  dare I tell you
what kept me back ? I had not meant to do so
to-night; but perhaps you would be easier if
you knew the whole?"

Tell me anything  everything."

You will not mind V

Nothing now," said Kate. " Nothing now."

Softening the story as well as he could, he
gave it : it could not but shock and sadden, but
he had the satisfaction of perceiving that, after
the first natural impulse of startled indignation,
she dwelt less on her own loss and Evelyn's
credulity, than on Pollaxfen's guilt.

That seemed to amaze and disturb her greatly.

"All these years!" she said,  *all these
years ! "

Recollect that he had no idea of the harm
he was doing. Although," added Evelyn, frankly,
I daresay it would not have made any difference
if he had. He merely intended preventing
anything that might take place between us ;
had he known that he was annulling vows that

were already registered in my heart, he

well, we won't pry into what his feelings might
have been."

And that was why you left England ? "

*' That was why, yes. I do not say that that
was why I stayed away ; for, once embarked on
the campaign, you know  and it began a couple
of years after I was out  I had, of course, to see
it through. And jolly good fun it was. But as
soon as it was over, I began to think of you
again, always having your image on my brain,
yet with the dread that it must be there only asa
tormentor. How madly I pursued Pollaxfen's
insinuated idea ! The merest turns of a phrase
in Lady Olivia's letters were enough at times to
seem perfect confirmation of the worst. So then
I tried to give you a successor, and you have
heard with what results. It was of no use, Kate,
of no manner of use. And at last back I came
to England, and you know the rest. What did
you think of my behaviour in London ? Did
you not discover that I was straining at the
leash, ever longing to be at your feet, and ever
kept back by all these doubts and fears ? I
imagined all had been only too plain to you."

"Sometimes, just for a moment, I did  did
fancy,  but then I had taken it into my
head "

*at? What? Taken what?"

"I thought there was some one else."

Some one else 1 Good gracious, child, I
never spoke to any one else ! "

No response.

What do you mean, Kate *? "

' You will not ask me to repeat all my foolish
fancies, Eupert. I was mistaken, and that is
all," hanging her head a little.

"That is hardly *air ; that is the truth, but
not the whole truth, quibbler. However, I
think I guess what it means; and you were
very, very much mistaken, my fair oracle. In
fact, you had no one but yourself to thank for
your 'foolish fancies'; you and my mother were
so possessed with the idea that only one of
Lady Olivia's troublesome daughters could bethe
attraction  at least in the matrimonial line
that it was useless to try to open your eyes.
Poor Madge ! What, / care for that shallow
girl ! Well, don't look at me so reproachfully,
else I shall be tempted to go on, just to get
some more of such glances ; but truly, love, she
is the last person in the world to have been my
lode-star. I amused myself with her at times,
for that I have already done penance, sweet,
but my real object was to be near you. I

had to establish my footing in the house, don't
you see ? I meant to be the privileged person,
allowed to attend wherever you went, to come
and go when you were alone, to fret myself
whenever you spoke to any other man, and
whenever you turned away from me. And I
was not the only one," continued Evelyn, smiling.
*If Miss Marjorie only knew it, there
were others besides me who came on her invitation,
and placed themselves at her disposal,
that they might have a chance of getting near
the unget-at-able elder sister. Why, Kate, you
froze us all ! You had such blind faith in
Marjorie, that it seemed to you nobody could
come near the house but on her account ! Well,
she is your sister, and I won't be hard upon her,
but she vastly overrate her own charms. It is
better, Kate,  my own incomparable Kate,  to
underrate them. Your admirers outnumber hers,

and your lover Look here," he cried, all

at once, '' do you remember that day when I
put my hand over yours on the carriage-door ?
What right had you to leave the little warm
thing there if you thought I was in love with
Marjorie ? "

You were talking to her, and I hoped '

'snow, Kate!"

I thought," said Kate, correcting herself,
blushing, "that you did not know what you
were doing. You sent me home afterwards."

"Ay, I did; you know why, now. And
then I drove on with her. Why not ? I had
no pleasure in being with other people, and no
suspicion of your taking 'fancies' into your
head. No one but your own little foolish self
ever hinted at such a thing."

'did they not?"

"And some of them had a very good notion
of how matters really stood."

By-and-by it was, " Did you read my letters,
Kate?"

Head them ! She could only smile at the
idea, remembering the many devices of one kind
and another by which Lady Olivia had been
induced to refer to, and reproduce the Indian
epistles.

I thought you would. I had no reason to
suppose it, but I had the presumption to believe
that you would always take an interest in me.
Eh, what are you laughing at ? Mocking me,
are you ? Well, it does sound odd now, doesn't
it? But I can tell you, that was all I ever

thought of then ; and so, when I was writing, 
I was a good son in writing to my mother, now,
was I not ? you will own that, Kate ?  always
when I was at my letters, I said to myself,
Will Kate hear of this r and ' What will Kate
think of that 1 ' I hoped, I fancied that perhaps
perhaps you might discover " hesitating.

What ? " whispered Kate in his ear.

* Did you discover anything, dear 1 Did you
learn from them that I was not quite the
thoughtless fellow I had been when you first
knew me ? Was there anything in them  to
tell you "

Oh yes, there was, Eupert ; there was."

That I had come to look upon life differently.
Before I met you I had never known  I
had never thought  Kate, you know what Lady
Olivia is ? "

I know."

*' She is my mother, and what has she ever
done for me that a mother should ? As a child
I had never seen her read her Bible, nor been
brought to say my prayers beside her knee. I
have known some Christian mothers since, and
when I was in the house with them  some of
our officers' wives they were  it used to make

me feel  I can't tell you what I felt  all was so
different. My poor mother had only cared to seeme
finely dressed, and able to hold up my head
and answer back when I was spoken to, and that
I should make friends with boys, noblemen's
sons, and  but you understand what I mean.
She had never given my character or principles
a thought. I declare, Kate, the only wonder is
that I did not grow up worse than I did ! However,
I was bad enough ; and I don't say it to
reproach her, God knows, but only that you,
who were the first person I had ever known
who, to my knowledge, acted in my presence
according to the dictates of your conscience, in
opposition to your will, may see how strange and
new such a thing was to me. I could not at all
comprehend it at first ; and though I afterwards
woke to a sensation of reverence, longing, self-abasement
 in short, though love was kindled
then and there, I still only thought of you as a
splendid visionary, counterbalancing the angelic
enthusiasm by which you were at times possessed,
by being very mortal indeed at others.
In which phase to love you best, I knew not ;
probably the one would have been incomplete
without the other. However, it was not till

afterwards, till I fell in with other people,  men
like myself, young and hearty, not likely to be
victimised by morbid fancies, or carried away
by sentiment, yet living the life I felt you knew
of,  that I ever thought such a life could be a
real and practical one. Evidently, they found
it so ; and they were some of the first men in
our regiment. When we had to go to the front
they were just the same as the rest of us, cheerful,
sensible, rather enjoying it, you know,  well,
it's a fact ; you can't help enjoying it, Kate, 
and they made no long mouths, nor anything
disagreeable. There was nothing extra put on
the occasion; they were just as they always
were ; and somehow, I got to going with them
more and more, and never after lost sight of the
truths I learnt then. But you were the first,
dear ; to you, my darling, I owe all happiness,
for this world, and for the next."

CHAPTER XXXVII.

CONCLUSION.

Smiling noon, for sullen morrow,
Years of joy for hours of sorrow."

RoJceby.

If Kate had been blest before, words cannot
paint her emotions at the close of this nocturnal
conference.

True, she had all along  that is, from the
date of Evelyn's return to England  noted that
his habits and modes of expression were not
such as could spring from any other source than
that of all good,  the discovery had been one to
cause her many a tear of thankfulness,  but to
hear such a change  and change it was  ascribed
to her,  to learn that in that past hour, when her
own need had been the sorest, and her own repentance
that of the returning prodigal she had
unconsciously stretched out her hand to save

another soul, and that soul the one beloved of
all on earth,  oh, it was too much !

Her cup had been full ; it now ran over.

It seemed as though she had not needed more
as though she could not contain more ; and
yet the Hand that was raining down riches
from above, could not stint itself.

Sleep was not to be thought of.

All the other occupants of the little cabin
were slumbering when, at length, the laggard
stole softly in, and she smiled to herself at her
stealthy tread and cautious movements ; but,
although some turned and raised their heads,
she succeeded in lying down without disturbance,
and passing the few hours that elapsed
before bustle again began on board, in such a
delirium of bliss as may perhaps be imagined.

Best it could hardly be called; not for a
moment could she close her eyes, or at least
sink into unconsciousness ;  but what did it
matter ? It would be all rest hereafter. Trials
and troubles might come  so she told herself
(but trials and troubles were at a very low
computation at the moment)  nothing could
tear up her great tree by the roots again.

Eupert hers, and owing all to her ! Henceforth

they were to be not only one in heart, butin
soul, in spirit ;  surely if ever a happy girl
might be pardoned for seeing the future shadowless,
and the present perfect,  and also for lying
awake talking nonsense to herself, when she
ought to have been recruiting her strength after
such a series of harrowing events as she had
undergone that day,  it was the newly-betrothed
Kate Ne what tie.

Marjorie came up on deck next morning, rosy
and renovated, after an excellent night's repose ;
but she was disgusted anew at the careless
"Good morning, Madge," with which Eupert
passed her by, and hurried forward to ask Kate
how she did '?

Whatever might be his intentions, he had no
business to behave like that, nor to turn his
back both on his mother and herself, while he
shawled up her sister so earnestly. As if they
did not all alike need a wrap in the chill atmosphere
of the early morning.

You must not take cold ; recollect that the
sun has not warmed the air yet," Eupert was
saying, as he fastened the brooch-pin ; but it
did not seem to occur to him that the air had
not been warmed for other people either.

Lady Olivia was really shivering, and her unnatural
son needed to have the fact brought
under his notice. She had found the cabin too
hot, but she almost repented having left it, and
only his proposal himself to make and to bring
her a cup of coffee, restored her equanimity. She
liked his coffee, he knew,  he had learned the
art of making it in the East,  and every one
brightened up at the proposal.

He now cheerfully suggested that he should
purvey for the party ; but even as he did so,
Marjorie fancied a sinister meaning in the " You
will be the better of it," which was spoken as he
was arranging his overcoat around his sister's
feet.

He was very tiresome ; and as for Kate, she
was still more ridiculous. Her foolish face was
suffused with a perfectly unintelligible glow;
and although she had been so " overdone " the
evening before, and had sat up to any hour of
the night after it, her cheeks were quite pink,
and her eyes bright. What was there to make
Eupert solicitous in that ? It seemed to her
that there was very little occasion for all his
shawls and his questions ; and she felt as if she
must say something disagreeable, or die for it,

VOL. III. T

when Kate, instead of answering readily that
she was quite well, and putting an end to the
whole thing, merely smiled without a word, and
permitted him to fuss over her as if she liked it.

"I did not know we had an invalid onboard,"
observed Miss Marjorie, disdainfully.
'rand, upon my word, I have always heard
that it was the night air, not the morning
air, that gave people cold. But Kate seems
to think otherwise."

Poor Marjorie ! She had some excuse for
being ill-tempered. She did not understand,
you see, the length to which matters had gone ;
and it may as well be said here at once, that
when she did, she behaved much better; but
ignorant as she was during the journey, feeling
herself of no account to anybody, without being
made the recipient of any justifiable secret for
such neglect, it is hardly to be wondered at that
she did not like it.

Evelyn's smile at her little feu nearly upset
her altogether. It said so plainly  '' Very
true ; you have hit the mark. We had a jolly
time, I admit. And you are quite right in supposing
that Kate has a high opinion of night
air,  so have I."

He remembered to put no sugar in Kate's
coffee, and sweetened her sister's till it nearly-sickened
her, though both had an equal distaste
for it. He was imperative about the bread-and-butter
on one plate alone, though Marjorie could
have eaten more than she got. He brought
Kate a chair on which to lean,  and seated
himself upon it.

Every minute his conduct provoked fresh
comparisons ; and pervading all, there was an
air of protection and possession, which was even
more annihilating than the anxious looks of the
previous evening.

In short, Evelyn was reckless, and did not
mind what he did, or what people thought.

He had not achieved much more than Kate
had in the way of repose, but such a loss was
 nothing to him. He was going down in triumph
to the home of his beloved ; he had won his
cause, which he had only, at most, hoped thereto
plead ; and he could snap his fingers at all
circumspection. But for Lady Olivia, Marjorie
would have been told at once what had happened,
but it was deemed advisable by both
that Lady Olivia should receive the information
during some quiet hour ; and accordingly, they

would not slight her by giving her step-daughter
any advantage.

Nor, indeed, did either feel that Marjorie had
deserved it. She might very well wait a day
or two ; she had shown no sympathy, exhibited
no sisterly affection ; she had not even evinced
common kindness when it was plain that Kate
was in trouble ; and Kate must now confess, in
her own heart, that she never received from the
child whom she had once so fondly cherished,
anything but disappointment. This was nothing
new ; she had long ceased to expect much from
Marjorie, and had grown by degrees to be too
well accustomed to her selfishness and waywardness,
to let their manifestation in the present
instance interfere with her hour of joy.

Indeed it may be doubted whether she noticed
anything amiss.

The green shades of St Mary's Isle, which
called forth the admiration of the party as the
little vessel steamed into harbour, were welcome,
as betokening an end to the sail, to only two out
of the four ; but ere the long drive to Carnochan
was accomplished, Evelyn had learned to watch
impatiently for every passing mile-stone.

He had had to take his place, as ill-luck

would have it, opposite Lady Olivia, and was
thus reduced to a feast of memory and imagination,
which, richly as it might have sated at
another hour, was poor compensation for the
loss of present smiles and glances. Silently he
sat back in his corner during the weary jogging
over hill and dale, which seemed to own no prospect
of termination ; and Marjorie's refusal to
get out and walk with him up the steep ascents,
cut off even the chance of his opening the wrong
door, and thus forcing her to change seats as
they re-entered the carriage.

That would have improved matters; as it
was, he had no satisfaction.

Carnochan reached, however, all was well
again. His eye brightened, but it fell upon
another eye and cheek whose feverish brilliancy
he could too well interpret ; and although suspicion
and anxiety on this account were at an
end, care and affection were not. The submissive
Kate was immediately under orders to
breakfast in her own room, and remain there
until fully rested.

Lady Olivia, indeed, recommended a like
course to everybody.

The peremptory whisper met with her warm

approval ; for, ' After our most successful
journey," she pronounced, '' a few hours rest in
the heat of the day will enable us all to meet
again at five o'clock, quite refreshed, and able
for a stroll or a drive before dinner."

It had been felt, as has been said, that it
vrould be well, before informing her of what had
taken place, to wait until other interests and
excitements had subsided. At present she was
full of one thing and another,  the plants which
had come down for her greenhouse, the china
for her boudoir, the hangings for her bed ; had
more been added to this, it would have been too
much.

So at least pleaded Evelyn. "A few hours,"
he said,  " a few hours only, and she shall hear
all, dear Kate, all ; but you know what it will
be when she does. Let us have this one evening
in peace. It will fortify us for the hubbub to
come. No, you need not be afraid," taking her
hand ; *' you may trust me now, that I shall
keep back nothing,  but," with a smile, " I
confess I tremble still I "

Lady Olivia was on in front with the head-gardener,
the stroll she had proposed having
been carried into effect. They had adjourned

to the garden, leaving only Marjorie within
doors, since she did not see much force in
accompanying the party; and gradually the two,
who had dropped behind, allowed the distance
to increase between them and the others. At
length they turned, as it were absently, down a
side-path.

It must have been here' said Evelyn, suddenly,
" that Mademoiselle had her grand view
of Pollaxfen. See, Kate, from the vinery,  she
said the pots hid her  there they are,  she had
a magnificent point of vantage from whence to
observe. Here is the road  eh  wasn't it?
She knows it is ; I see by her face," laughing
as he bent forward. "And that is the door
whereby she fled. I have it all," stopping to
survey the spot.

She could not but own he was correct.

"It is a good door," continued her lover,
eyeing it ; " it is a pity that it should only serve
your turn once. Come," stepping forward, and
laying his hand upon the latch,  " come, my
nestling, take another flight. Nobody wants us,
and we want nobody. Let us go round the
lake; and tomorrow you must show me some
of the woody walks I heard so much about when

we fished the burn together. And the lake
itself too. There is only one boat, I know ;
we'll go to the island sometimes, keeping the
boat with us  shall we, Kate? Well defy
them to summon us home before we are ready,
eh?"

They had had their ramble, and were returning
in haste begotten of conscious dilatoriness,
when whom should they meet point-blank but
the trusty Maxwell.

Maxwell was on his way to the house, to pay
his respects, bring his papers, and spy out the
land.

Sorry I could do nothing for you about that
hum  ha  last letter you wrote. Miss Kate,"
he began cheerily, after civilities had passed.
But I guessed how it would be. Pollaxfen
will not let us alone, as long as he can put a
finger in the pot to stir the wrong way. And
you wrote yourself, afterwards ? "

*' Yes, I did," said Miss Newbattle, in some
confusion. 'rit seemed my only chance, Mr
Maxwell ; and it would have been of no use
troubling you again."

And he refused you to yourself ! He's ' no
blate,' as we say in Scotland," turning to her

companion. "He's a tough customer, Captain
Evelyn, that can refuse  well, I daresay she's
told you '? " cautiously.

*'Yes.''

That can refuse a young lady the use of her
own money, when not a halfpenny of it can
come to him or his," with a thought of Bertha
and her baby, on whose account he had not
refused, himself.

**Mr PoUaxfen would tell you that he was
actuated by a sense of duty," replied Evelyn,
with great gravity.

Maxwell grinned. " Very likely, very likely
indeed, that he would tell me so. He would not
stick at telling  hum  ha "  nodding the rest
" be they great or small."

"And he wrote to you again ? " said Kate.

Wrote to say that he was not to be pestered
by personal applications from you on any subject,
 set him up ! That's all we get by having
anything to do with "

"Never mind, Mr Maxwell. We will ask
nothing more from him than we can help."

Eight there. Miss Kate ; right you are,
there. That's the safe plan. Ask nothing, and
nothing can be denied you. Blessed are they.

you know  eh 1 Blessed are they that expect
nothing, for they shall not be disappointed.
That was my father's axiom. And, troth ! we'll
get nothing from Mr Harold PoUaxfen, whether
we expect it or not ! "

But I was sorry for the poor farmers, the
Comeliness' he went on, when the laugh had
subsided ; " they deserved better at our hands.
And it was hard on them that they should have
to bear the brunt  that yon impudent jackanapes
should take this opportunity of plaguing

you."

They have not suffered. Captain Evelyn,"
said Kate, with a happy look, " has taken care
of that. He was with us at the time, and 
and ''

"And lent her the five hundred," said
Evelyn, smiling, *' which he expects to receive
again some day. It does not very much matter
when, Mr Maxwell."

Indeed ? " cried the lawyer, backing almost
into the water. " Indeed 1 Is it possible?
Bless my soul. Captain Evelyn, what  what 
what am I to think 1 "

What you please," replied Evelyn, looking
proudly down on the light figure by his side.

bethink as much as you like, and you won't
go far wrong ; will he, Kate ? "

Oho ! " cried Maxwell. '' Aha ! That's it,
is it ? Now I know where I am ! Nay, Miss
Kate, don't turn away. I'm your father's old
friend ; let me wish you joy ; and if I'm the
first to do so "

*' You are the first," interposed Evelyn.

And that is the meaning of these blushes.
She will grow used to it, Mr Maxwell ; and
you and I, I hope, will soon become better
acquainted. At present I am going to be
guilty of the rudeness of asking you to put
ofi" your visit to Carnochan to another day, if
it be not inconvenient, since we have not yet
told Lady Olivia anything, and it might come

out "

'Ay, ay; and it would, to a morality.

For when it's not business. Captain Evelyn,
when it's not business,  the while I divulge
to no man, be he who he may,  when it's a
matter of domesticity, or friendship, I'm no
hand at keeping a secret. My wife says that
I'm not what could be called a sieve, for I'm
just a big pipe,  what's in at my ear is out at
my mouth before you've well lost sight of it !

Ha, ha I I'll away home, then. Good-bye,
good-bye. And best wishes, and many of
them to you both."

"And now'' added the old man to himself
as he posted off, as hard as he could go, down
the avenue,  " and now I know where I am ! "

Bertha's chance might go to the winds  he
had never reckoned on it  he was ready at once
to believe that he had never thought of it, 
since another marriage was to come off, and
since the rare luck of being the first to hear
and the first to tell the news had fallen to him,
he could cheerfully exclaim, " And now I know
where I am ! "

Now he had a potter for Pollaxfen. For,
once upon the track, he had soon made Bertha
confess to all she knew of the subject, and
it was, as we know, confirmatory of his own
suspicions.

How many letters, therefore, he inwardly
composed, informing the pestilent trustee of
the news,  how vehemently he racked his
brains for a pretext to write, and how earnestly
he cast about in his mind for terms
that should be unpalatable, and parentheses
that should carry a prick,  history sayeth not.

Pollaxfen spat upon the letter.

He was not refined, but he might have
stopped short of that,  more especially as no
one but himself knew that he had done so.
To Grubber, who came to see how he took
the news, he began to rail savagely at his late
wife's relations, but found to his amazement
that Grubber, who had just been over in
Manchester, entirely declined to listen.

Seems to me you must have been spooney
in that quarter yourself," sneered the widower.

There was no seeming about you," retorted
his friend.

Pollaxfen stared at him, and demanded what
he meant 1

Every one knows now why you abuse the
Newbattles ; and Captain Evelyn is not likely
to hold his tongue about the story you invented
for him."

*' Story ! " cried Pollaxfen, turning white.

What in the name of Confound you !

What the devil "

"Oh, there's no good in swearing," replied
Grubber, virtuously. "It won't unsay the
libel you perpetrated five years ago, and it
won't shut Evelyn's mouth either."

It shall shut yours at any rate, you d d

impertinent blackguard "

Whereupon Grubber, who had done quite
as well as even Mademoiselle, who had coached
him, could have expected, had up with his
cane in a moment, and found it suited his
hand exactly.

It did not in the least disturb him that he
was attacking a defenceless adversary, nor did
it grieve his spirit that, whereas he himself was
a burly giant, PoUaxfen was barely five feet
seven. Because of the latter's being unarmed
and a pigmy, was he to escape chastisement, if
he told lies ?

Not so. And between ourselves, I am disposed
to agree with him ; while, as for Mademoiselle,
her raptures and ecstasy over the
affair were as great as though her hero had
been a second Bonaparte. She never ceased
to chant his praises, and ring the changes on
his valour; and as Rubber himself was no
whit behind her in his own astonishment at
the feat he had performed, he made, on his
next entry to Springfield, a never-to-be-efiaced
impression on the heart of his rich cousin. It
ended in his becoming master of the territory on

which he had received such an ovation, and ashe
was deeply imbued with the belief that he
owed all his good-luck to Mademoiselle, and as
she was equally confident that she owed hers to
him, they were always the best of friends, and
would never listen for a moment to a word
against each other.

Mademoiselle continued to be indispensable
even after her pupil's marriage. She wrote
the notes, superintended the cookery, arranged
the dress, and gave an air of ton to the household
generally. What Lady Olivia Newbattle
had said and thought had its full weight there,
and the five years spent at Carnochan stamped
the governess indubitably as a woman of fashion.
Lady Olivia were not rife in the neighbourhood;
and from hearing so much of this exalted
personage, of her rules, opinions, and
beliefs, Mrs Grubber felt quite supported by
the conviction that she knew at least one
member of the aristocracy.

Nor did her husband plume himself much lesson
having actually sat at the same table with
the august family, and having partaken of their
long-tailed bird and defaced blanc-mange, in
the room where the windows were, according to

his instructress, twenty feet deep, than on the
drubbing he had afterwards had the privilege
of bestowing on the quondam bridegroom, on
whose invitation he had been present.

It was the latter consideration, however, which
procured for him a call from Captain Evelyn
on one occasion.

And he never made any resistance ? " said
he, having confessed that he had come to hear
the truth of the report which had been sent him
in answer to his promised communication to
Mademoiselle.

' You gave him a downright caning, and left
him half-dead on the floor, and he never sent
you a line afterwards, nor tried any other
plan?"

'' He did nothing but howl and curse ; oh,
it was horrible !" said Grubber. " He was always
such a fellow for bad language, you know."

And you gave it him well ? "

Grubber smiled.

' Gave it him well ! " quoth Maxwell, when
he heard of the affair. " I'se warrant he did !
I remember the fellow  a perfect Goliath. The
half of him would have demolished Pollaxfen; it
was sheer spendthrift waste to take the whole !"

And how did Lady Olivia take the news '?

Just during the first half-hour, just until she
had made out how far and in what manner the
marriage would affect herself, and until she
could be certain that London was, after all, the
only place in the world that one could really
live in, and that Carnochan and Evelyn Towers
would be only delightful as resorts for a short
time in the summer months  just so long did
it take to reconcile her to the most charming,
desirable, suitable alliance that had ever been
made !

Dear Kate ! Dearest Rupert ! Her only son,
and her sweetest daughter !

Was ever parent so fortunate ? " she wrote,
Was ever mother in such an enviable position ?
I lose neither,  I seem to gain both.

'' The dear homes in which I have passed so
many happy years are neither of them lost tome,
 no stranger on either hand will look coldly
as I enter the halls, in each of which I was
myself a bride. I shall never be suffered to feel
myself an intruder, as long as Kate is mistress
of Evelyn Towers, and Eupert master of Car-nolan."


And that was all !

VOL. Il u

Never in his life, long as he had known his
mother, had Evelyn met with a like surprise.
After the experience of thirty-four years, he had
yet something to learn in the peculiar temperament
of Lady Olivia.

And the kind old Comlines "?

How great was their joy, how hearty their
sympathy, may be imagined by all. Evelyn
took his wife straight off to the Muirland Farm
on their wedding-day  no one knowing whither
they had gone, nor where they were to be found,
and they spent many days there, revisiting
all their old haunts, and recalling what had
taken place at each one.

It was in September, and the days were mild,
cloudy, and windy, as they were meant to be
by the two who were one in their desire to be
there, reviving the memories that were so dear
to both. Every night the wind rose and raved
overhead, and the spray flew inland, and drifted
up against the window-panes, to the delight of
Evelyn, for whom the recollection was fraught
with an inconceivable charm. His content at
being allowed thus to begin his honeymoon was
extreme. He took his companion, as of old, to
the moor and the shore, listened with her to

the music of the plunging falls, and gazed on
the fern-tufted walls of shining rock, which
seemed to hem them in from the noisy world
beyond. How glorious, how incredible it was
to be there again with Kate ; and to find, after
all those years, the old farmhouse, with its
orchard, and its burn, its resounding cliffs and
rollinfif billows  above all, its kind and faithful
inhabitants  the same as they had ever been !

He could hardly believe what his eyes saw
and his ears heard ; he had feared so much, and
hoped so little.

Nor was Evelyn himself altered in any outward
circumstance.

The same winning good-humour,  the same
infectious gaiety and frankness of demeanour
which had won all hearts of old,  was still
his leading characteristic ; but those who knew
him well, and met him in his daily path, could
perceive that, whereas he had formerly lived to
please and be pleased,  to be benevolent, agreeable,
kind, and in his turn enjoy the fruits of so
happy a disposition,  he now habitually thought
and acted from higher motives ; for Christian
principle lent a sobriety of purpose and nobility
of aim to a life which had hitherto been devoted

merely to the pleasant passing away of hour by
hour.

He had been a bewitching trifler ; he was still
light-hearted and jocund,  but he was also a
sensible, rational man.

In Kate, however, was manifested the more
open change.

Instead of the proud, self-reliant girl whom he
had first met in that sequestered spot six years
before, and whose beauty had then and thereafter
been marred by sullenness, and scorched
by fierce passions, here was now a lovely, shy,
and tender flower, opening every petal gladly to
his touch.

Yet she was half reluctant too. On the first
evening, as he placed her in the ancient, well-remembered
chintz - covered arm - chair in the
ingle-neck, and, drawing his own to her side,
boldly laid his hand on hers, she durst not look
around.

Afterwards they got on better ; for the 
was brought from its corner, and he
must needs have his lesson ; and between scolding
and whispering, and this and that, he made
her quite merry again. The charge he took of
his bride ; the delight he had in her; the authority

he assumed over her,  were, according to
Mr Comline, *' a sight for sir been ; " while the
gudewife, betwixt laughing and crying,  merriment
at the young couple's expense, and thanksgiving
that she had been permitted to be a witness
of their happiness,  had her apron at her
eyes, behind the door, all day long.

An' 'deed it was weel they cam' when they
did," she said, afterwards ; " for an they hanna,
my gudeman wad hae lost the last bit o' cheeriness
he had i' this world. He was a wee thing
d wining at the time ; but the sight o' the twa
was just a cordial and healing balm to mak'
him fain an' hearty for the time. 'Twas but
the breeze-up o' the caunel in its socket, though,
he never was about again ; and the Muirland
Farm had nae maister afore the nest summer
was over."

It passed into other hands, and the two
women were bidden to come to Carnochan until
their next small dwelling was ready for their
use. This gave rise to the following little scene,
which, whether to his credit or not, it must be
confessed was witnessed by Evelyn with unmitigated
relish.

He had come upon the two sisters in the

triangle,  for Lady Olivia and Marjorie were
down on a visit,  and as lie had opened the
door, his ear had caught the sound of an altercation
within. There was Marjorie pouting, and
Kate regarding her with flashing eye and scornful
lip.

Heyday ! " said Evelyn, " What's this ? "
Do speak to Kate," cried Marjorie, getting
her voice in first. " She is so tiresome and unkind.
Here are the Algernon Heskeths say
they can come for two nights this week,  Kate
told me to ask them  and now she won't let
them come ! "

' Marjorie ! " from Kate.
Well, you won't. Of course we could not
have the Algernon Heskeths and your old farm
people here at the same time,  and she says,
Eupert, that she would rather have old Dame
Comline than the Algernon Heskeths ! "
I would,  a thousand times."

But at any rate, for my sake "

Marjorie, I told you why. If I were to put
off my old friends, the best friends I ever had,
they would not have a roof to cover them this
week. They were most unwilling to come ; it
was we, Eupert and I, who pressed them,  but

now they have nowhere else to go ! Had we
let them alone, they would have made other
arrangements."

"Such nonsense asking them at all!" muttered
her sister.

*' And now to cast them off! "  Rupert heard
the tone with keen enjoyment.

Will you speak to her, Rupert 1 She will
listen to you''

I speak ? No, no. Fight your own battles.
Now then, Kate''

'* What could a week signify ? " pursued
Marjorie, renewing the attack.

"Nothing,  to your people. Get them to
change. But if you like them still to come, I
tell you, Marjorie, that Lizzie and her mother
will be in no one's way. My old friend will sit
up here, and Rupert and I, and any one who
likes, can come in and see her : she will have
her meals with Bennet ; I have arranged with
Bennet for that, and "

"And the daughter?"

"The daughter has sat at our table before
now, as you can remember very well. I have
told you all this before ; and now you can do as
you choose about the Algernon Heskeths."

You said you would not have them'

'' Marjorie, I did not ! "

Oh, fie ! " interposed Rupert. But he looked
at his wife with a smile that boded no good to
her sister. " Oh, fie ! Naughty Kate ! "

"Dear Eupert, she really is very naughty,"
said Marjorie, plaintively. "She  oh, you
are laughing at me 1 If that is to be the
way "

If that were to be the way it was time she
took herself ofi; she could not stand nonsense ;
and to see Eupert take her sister's face between
his hands and look into her eyes like that, was
really quite improper. What next 1

"The old Adam," whispered Eupert, when
he had kissed and comforted, encouraged and
applauded. "The old Adam still, sweet Kate.
What ! mustn't I then 1 Oh, but forgive me this
once ; it was so very, very nice to hear it ! "

THE End.

PRINTED BY WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS.



'emi.

its

m

le

r
