Chapter I.

*' Starvation's a deuced unpleasant thing,
Madeline."

' Yes, dear, so it is."

The first speaker was a man of about
thirty years of age, with a thin dark face, to
whose keen eyes and clear-cut features a life
of shifts had given a hungry hawk-like look.
And the submissive answer came from the
lips of a woman in whom the virtue of submission
was evidently not natural but acquired;
a tall massive woman, with a commanding
figure, and a beautiful fair face whose long
gray eyes could look shrewd as well as soft,

VOL. I. 1

and round whose red lips there were abbacy
indications of future lines of resolution as
well as passion.

Her gentle tone of sympathy jarred upon his
savage sullen discontent.

'* Yes, dear, yes, dear'' he repeated impatiently,
mimicking her. '' Is that all you
have to say ? Don't you know what starvation
means ?"

'eyes, Louis," said she submissively, rising
from the armchair in which she had been
indolently sitting, and crossing the room to
him as he sat by the table staring fixedly out
of the window and across the courtyard to
the opposite side of the hotel. " It means
no food and then death, doesn't it ?"

'' Those are the first and the last stages,
but there are many others  worse ones  in
between."

'rare there?" she asked indifferently, as
she went down on her knees beside him and
laid her head softly against his shoulder.
Then, as he moved impatiently, she added ina
pleading voice : " Don't be angry with
me, Louis, for not being frightened enough

at the prospect. By-and-by, when you are
gone out and I am sitting here alone in the
dark, then I shall remember what you said,
and I shall feel it and perhaps I shall cry ;
but while I am with you all sad things
seem to fall on my ears without any meaning,
and nothing but your unhappy face can make
me unhappy or seem worth troubling about.
So you see, my husband, it is not because
I am stupid that I don't mind the thought
of starving ; it is only that if I die in your
arms I don't care what I die of."

The man turned and examined her face in
cold curious wonder. His passion for her
had died out months ago ; the monotony of
her unswerving affection bored him, and the
cynical knowledge that it was entirely undeserved
made him look upon the too
generous giver with contempt rather than
with gratitude. The extravagance of her
last assertion, which he did not for a moment
believe, attracted his attention.

"Do you mean to tell me, Madeline, that
it is nothing to you whether you live on a
first-floor on the Boulevard Malesherbes, as

12

we did three months ago, or exist like condemned
criminals in one little dingy cell with
scarcely room to turn ?"

And he glanced round the room  a little
unpretending bed and sitting room combined,
which hardly deserved his savage criticism;
though everything in it, from the tarnished
gilt clock, which did not go, to the velvet-pile
carpet, whose blue roses and crimson leaves
had lost all their startling originality, betrayed
the taste of the past.

** No, Louis, it is something to me where
we live, because it makes so much difference
to you."

** Oh, as to that," said he, throwing himself
back in his chair and assuming a careless
tone, *' of course it is a mere matter of
custom. If I were used to second-floors and
cheap restaurants, I dare say I should like
them."

He was not looking at Madeline, or he
might have read in her face an expression of
contemptuous incredulity, such as he would
not have believed her capable of showing
after any statement from his lips. But

during the twelve months which had elapsed
since her hurried marriage with Louis de
Breteuil she had learnt a good many things
which that gentleman prided himself on keeping
secret, and she knew perfectly well that
the prosperity he had enjoyed since she first
made his acquaintance, and which had continued
until within three months of the
present time, had been preceded by a period
during which even second-floors and cheap
restaurants were luxuries beyond his reach.
She had never dared to question him as to
the sources of the wealth which had so
suddenly come to an end; indeed, she
accepted that mystery, as well as certain
other facts mysterious only to her, with a
placid acquiescence proceeding partly from
indolence, partly from ignorance, and partly
from faith. Thus, while the ease with which
the brilliant Louis had managed to obtain a
firm footing in a certain fast but exclusive
set in Parisian society was a common topic,
the circumstance that it was only the gentlemen
of this set whom she ever met woke no
suspicion in the ingenuous young Englishwoman,

who, belonging by birth to the lower
middle class, was easy to deceive on any
point concerning that vague ** society," the
curious improbability of whose sayings and
doings, as recorded in the literature of her
own class, had often surprised her. She had
a beautiful home, handsomer dresses than
almost any of the ladies she saw at the Opera,
in the Bois, or at the races, and she had
Louis  or at least as much of Louis as his
many engagements would allow. And these
engagements grew ever more numerous, as a
man's are apt to do as the honeymoon fades
into the past. But his empire over her was
too strong for her to complain ; and never
having been a spoilt woman, she consoled
herself for his neglect by the pride she took
in his position. For Louis de Breteuil had
taken the world of Paris by storm ; had cut
out the young Parisians by his skill in riding,
driving, love-making, by the quality of his
horses, the cut of his coats, the daring of his
speech ; and had become the Admirable
Crichton of the frivolous life of the boulevards.
Nobody knew more about him on his

first appearance in Paris than that he was a
French Canadian whose fortune, left him by
an uncle, was derived from oil-springs in
Pennsylvania ; but the general ignorance concerning
his antecedents, his name, and his
title, had weighed lightly in the balance
against an unmistakable distinction of appearance
and manner, and a certain unaffected
sincerity of cynicism which dazzled the
laboriously wicked golden youth of Paris, forever
striving towards an ideal of depravity
which their little wits find as hard to reach as
ever anchorite found his ideal of sanctity.

Louis de Breteuil's reign, if short, had
been glorious : and the audacity of his
abdication was worthy of the brilliancy of
his throne. For, instead of waiting until
the tide of his prosperity had run out, and
vanishing with debts unpaid and the reputation
of a ruined swindler, De Breteuil had
announced his intention of visiting the East
which is a vague term, and suggestive of
the splendour with which his name was
associated  had given sumptuous farewell
entertainments, had paid enough of his bills

to leave the impression that it was failure of
memory and not of money which caused him
to leave the rest unpaid ; had sold his
furniture, his pictures, his horses, dismissed
his servants, and taken his departure, leaving
behind him a reputation bad indeed, but for
which half the well-born young men of Paris
would have given ten years of their abortive
lives. He wanted to be further away from
his late acquaintances than any ship could
take him ; so, instead of going to the other
side of the world, he went to the other side
of the Seine, lived the simple life of a poor
bourgeois, and, when the summer heat grew
too intolerable in the little room on the
second-floor, he would take MadeHne for a
few sous on a steamer to St. Cloud, without
one fear that the humble couple trudging
along in the dust should be recognised as the
brilliant De Breteuil and the woman whose
toilettes had been envied by every other well-dressed
woman in Paris.

If, in carrying out this transformation, his
temper had proved worthy of his intellect, De
Breteuil would have been heroic ; but the

feat of accommodating his mind, as he did
his habits, to circumstances, was just a little
beyond his powers, and was left to Madeline,
who wore a cotton gown, made by her own
hands, with the same natural majesty which
had attracted all eyes when, at race-meeting
or review, she had come straight from the
approving inspection of Worth.

Now, as she knelt beside Louis' chair,
listening to his gibes at second-floors and
cheap restaurants, she looked like a queen in
exile, while he seemed to have sunk already
to the level of his present position, and to
bear the stamp of adventurer on his stooping
shoulders and haggard hangdog face.

'' Well, Louis," she said, after a pause,
*' we shall dine well to-day at least. I think
Mr. Staunton is rich, I am certain he i&
generous. I am sure we shall enjoy ourselves,
and I love St. Germain."

Mr. Staunton was an Englishman who,
with the freedom of a foreigner, Jiad gone
from Paris to St. Cloud by steamer two days
ago, had made acquaintance with De Breteuil
and his beautiful wife, and had begged them

to come and dine with him when and where
they pleased. St. Germain had been chosen
by Louis as a place where, in this, the
beginning of July, they were not likely to
meet stray wanderers from the idle world.

**Ah, yes," said Louis, with some animation
at the mention of their new acquaintance ;
* its getting near the time when he promised
to call for us. You must get ready, Madeline,
and  and you may make yourself beautiful
once more  put on one of the handsome
dresses you have so nobly laid aside lately 
no one is likely to see us, and you must show
your countryman what French taste can do
for English beauty."

When Mr. Staunton arrived, and Madame
Louis, as she was called in the hotel, swept
down the stairs towards him in a cloud of
delicate lace which showed here and there, as
she moved, a fold of dainty shell-tinted silk,
the Englishman, unprepared for this transformation
in the woman whose beauty had
already made a strong impression upon him,
looked upon her with a worshipful admiration
which De Breteuil noted keenly. i'll through

the long drive to St. Germain Louis said
Tery little, leaving the talk almost entirely to
the stranger and MadeHne ; but at dinner he
woke up into sudden liveliness ; his animation
affected his companions, and Madeline, as she
saw him enjoying himself once more, grew
fairer with the happiness which sparkled in
her eyes and glowed in her cheeks. And
when dinner was over, and De Breteuil told
her to sing to them, the first soft notes that
fell from her lips put them both under a spell
of listening silence.

It was at the Pavilion Henri Quatre that
they were dining ; their table was drawn up
close to a window that overlooked the sloping
hill and the quaintly-cut box and yew-trees of
an old-fashioned garden. Madeline sang first
some lively French chansonnettes, glancing
from time to time at Louis with instinctive
affectionate coquetry ; then letting her eyes
wander out to the evening beauty of the
landscape below, she broke into the tender
old melody of " Home, sweet Home," whiff
she sang through with feeling which kept the
Englishman at least spellbound, gazing at

the beautiful singer with admiration which
was almost devotion. And still De Breteuil
watched him.

Madeline's voice quivered on the last notes ;
as she ended, Mr. Staunton's enthusiastic
thanks almost startled her. Louis nodded to
her and glanced at the door.

'' Go and put on jour bonnet, my dear.
Mr. Staunton must see the terrace'*

With an uneasy glance from Louis to the
stranger and back again to Louis, she
obediently left the room.

When she returned, Mr. Staunton alone
was waiting for her. The expression of
easy good-humoured enjoyment which his
face had worn throughout the day had disappeared
; he looked so cold and so grave
that Madeline stopped short in the doorway,
and glanced round anxiously in search of
Louis.

** Where is my husband ?" she asked
quickly.

''M. Louis will join us, madame, if you
will do me the pleasure of starting with me
towards the terrace'' said he, with curious

stiffness. ' He was much struck with a
horse on which a gentleman has just ridden
up to the hotel, and he followed it to the
stables to ask if it is for sale, I believes

*'Ah," said Madeline, 'animals of all
kinds are my husband's passion. A horse
that nobody but himself can ride, a fierce dog
that nobody else dares to approach unless it
is chained up, seem to understand and obey
him as if they were human ; and I think
Louis loves them better than if they were."
The last words she uttered rather bitterly.

"Indeed!" said Mr. Staunton, with grave
interest ; and there was a short pause, during
which they sauntered on towards the terrace,
both thoughtful and preoccupied. ' And so
this is a little trouble to you, this fondness of
his for animals, which takes him away from
you a good deal, perhaps  riding  and
driving ?"

She looked up at him in some surprise.
"What there had been of sternness in his face
a few minutes ago had given place to a kind,
sad look of compassion and sympathy, which
suddenly brought the tears to her eyes and

made her stop in her walk for a few seconds.
She recovered herself, and went on, involuntarily
hurrying her steps a little.

*' Yes  no'' she answered nervously.
Then, stopping again, and looking straight
into his face with her frank eyes, she said,
'' You think I am unhappy, I see, and that I
am jealous of my husband's love for his

horses. I am not, indeed ; I What

makes you think I am unhappy ?" she
asked, in a different tone, with curiosity and
suspicion.

Mr. Staunton had stopped too, and he was
answering her questioning gaze with a look
as frank as her own, full of deepest pity  
pity that surprised, alarmed her, and brought
the blood to her cheeks. He hesitated, as if
debating desperately within himself whether
he should tell her something. But he turned
away sharply, muttering, in a voice too low
for her to hear distinctly, ' God ! I caiit tell
her !"

*' What are you saying? what do you
mean ?" Madeline asked abruptly, alarmed,
but retaining her dignity.

Instead of answering," he asked her another
question : " Have you any friends in France
in Paris  madame *?"

*' Friends ? No  o ; at least, I know  I
knew  I have met a good many people, but
I can hardly call them friends."

Her hesitating answer seemed to him
pathetic. He spoke more gently than ever.

*' Forgive me, madame, if I say things
that pain you. I am almost old enough to
be your father ; and to see a young lady so
friendless "

'' Friendless ! I have my husband," she
interrupted sharply. *' And what can a

woman want more than a good, loving "

She checked herself, and, facing him again,
asked slowly, 'what has he been saying to
you ? Ah ! I know  I can guess ; I was
afraid of that," she faltered, in a lower voice,
losing her self-control. '' He told you that,
now we are poor, we shall have to live apart
for a time, did he not ? He has hinted it tome,
but never dared to say it outright ; he is
so afraid of wounding me, poor fellow ! Was
it not that ?"

Mr. Staunton did not answer. '* You are
very fond of him T' he asked, after a short
silence.

''Oh yes." The reply was given in such
a low voice that it sounded like a soft
sigh.

Ah ! And he is very fond of you, of
course. Don't be angry with me for my
impertinence  or what you, no doubt, consider
my impertinence."

Oh no, indeed I don't," broke in Madeline,
with a shrewd mirthful little laugh. " I
know the world and the people in it better
than you think. There are gentlemen, friends
of my husband, vhom I have to receive and
talk to, whose very look is an impertinence ;
and I have learnt to be discriminating. I
vill listen to whatever you have to say. I
will answer any questions you like, for I
know that you are kind, I know that you are
good."

Mr. Staunton promptly took advantage of
her permission, and said simply : " You have
been married before, madame ?"

She looked rather astonished, but answered

at once : ' Yes. Three years ago, when I was
nineteen, and a teacher in a school, I married
a man named Meredith' She paused ; but
as her hearer was evidently much interested,
continued: "He was a clerk on the Stock
Exchange. He was not kind to me : he
drank, and neglected me, and wanted me to
go on the stage, which I thought was wrong,
so I would not go ; and he complained that I
was hard and cold and selfish, though that
was the only thing in which I would not
obey him. And then, when we had been
married eighteen months, he disappeared ;
and by that time," she went on naively, "he
had made me so very unhappy that I did not
try very hard to find him. And then at last
I learnt that he was dead, and I married
M. de  , I mean my present husband, and
he brought me over to France, and then
for the first time I learnt what it is to be
happy."

And you are sure your first husband is
really dead ?" asked Mr, Staunton slowly.
Oh yes. I saw the announcement in two
VOL. I. 2

papers, and I heard all about it from Louis
besides."

' From Louis, your present husband, you
say ?" significantly.

*eyes."

But there was no suspicion in her eyes,
and again Mr. Staunton found himself unable,
voluntarily, to call it up there. He looked
away from her for a minute, and then said :
* And so you are afraid that soon you may be
forced to separate for a time ?"

*'I  I am afraid so'' tremulously. 'sat
least, Louis has hinted that."

*' And what will you do ?"

**I don't know  yet. But I have been
used to earn my own living, and I have learnt
some French, and I am not at all a helpless
woman. And, with the thought of helping
to form a home some day for Louis and me,
I feel that I shall get on  yes, further than
seems possible now," said she, with a quiet
bright resolution which deepened alike Mr.
Staunton's pity and his admiration.

*I quite believe that; I am sure you
would meet any trial, no matter how severe,"

said he, with emphasis, ' in the most
courageous and high-hearted manner. But
the world is very hard for women, and
although I know that many brave girls do
struggle on alone and successfully, still the
battle is much less hard if they have friends
in whom they can trust. Will you trust in
my friendship ?''

Madeline fixed her long grey eyes thoughtfully
upon his face. She was an experienced
judge of faces, and a very short examination
of the kind brown eyes, iron-grey beard, and
the lines and furrows worn by nothing baser
than time or trouble, satisfied her. *eyes,"
she answered simply.

every well. Then I will give you my
private address in England." He had taken
some letters out of his pocket, and having
found a spare half sheet of paper, was writing
on it with a pencil. * And, in case you
should want any help or any advice sooner
than you expect, I will let you know just
where I shall be for the next fortnight. You
see," and he gave her the paper, 'that for
the next few days I shall be at Lyons, and

22

after the 8th I shall be at Turin for a week.
I should like to be able to stay a few days
longer in Paris, but I am a stockbroker,
travelling with valuable securities which I
must deliver in Turin by the 9 th ; and I
have some business to do in Lyons before
then."

' You are a stockbroker V

** Don't look so shocked ; I am not one of
the very worst."

'' Oh no, no ; but "

** Ah, of course. Your first husband was
in a stockbroker's office, you say ; Meredith,
I think you said his name was. Is  was he
on the House himself?"

' Yes, I believe so. Yes ; I am sure
of it."

' Is not that M. Louis on the other side of
the road ?"

They had turned, and were walking back
towards the hotel. Madeline had time for
more questions before they rejoined him.

*' Have you any daughters, Mr. Staunton?"

** No. I have only one child  a boy of
thirteen."

*' You are very fond of him ?"
* Very. They say I worship Gerald."
*' Gerakl Staunton," she repeated softly.
*' I wonder if I shall ever meet him ?"

*' I hope so. In the meantime, remember,
if you are in any difficulty, write to me ; I
am a widower, and have no one to interfere
with my correspondence. If you want my
presence I will come, if I can."

Madeline glanced in terror at Louis, who
had marvellously sharp ears. But as they
crossed the road slowly to where he was
standing, cigar in mouth, looking at the sunset
between the trees, he did not appear to
see or hear them. She said hurriedly to her
companion, in a low voice :

*' I cannot thank you ; I am sure you don't
expect to be thanked, for you are good
because you cannot help it. But I have been
praying God that some day I may meet your
darling son, and be able to do him some kindness,
or some service to show you I am grateful.
I know I am not likely to have the
chance ; and it sounds silly to tell my feeling,
doesn't it ?" she added timidly.

*' No, my dear young lady. No man can
have too many friends, and I am thankful to
have made another friend for my boy'' said
he kindly.

Madeline felt, when Louis became aware of
their approach, and they all walked back to
the hotel, that there was an awkward constraint
between the two men ; and this feeling
grew so strong during the return drive that
she felt quite relieved when the victoria
stopped at the iwrte-coclicre of the dingy third-rate
hotel where she and Louis were staying,
and when, with a warm pressure of the hand,
Mr. Staunton looked into her face kindly and
gravely for the last time. She did not notice
his parting with Louis, for something in the
Englishman's pitying face had suddenly woke
a pang of horror and fear in her heart that
made her turn quickly away and hurry upstairs.


She reached her room, lit a candle, and
pored over the half-sheet of scrawled addresses
almost reverently with glistening eyes. Suddenly
the paper was taken from her, and,
looking up with a cry, she saw Louis, who

examined the scrawl carefully, and then
folded it up and put it in his pocket. Then,
still without speaking, he got a writing-desk,
placed it on the table before her, drew the
inkstand forward, and put a pen into her
hand.

*' Now write what I tell you," said he very
gently, laying his hand upon her shoulder.
'' My dear sir "

She wrote obediently, with trembling
fingers.

'* Can you fulfill your promise, and come
and see me ? I would not trouble you, but
my need is urgent  and it has indeed come
soon, as you prophesied " dictated he.

She wrote the first few words in stupid,
timid, unreasoning submission. But as he
spoke the words, '* My need is urgent," her
hand stopped.

As soon as he noticed that she was not
voting  for his eyes were fixed on the
opposite wall as he arranged the sentence 
he shook her by the shoulder. *' Well, goon,
go on."

Then she turned her head slowly and in

fear, and looked up into his face in heartsick
wonder.

*'"What does it mean? What is it for,
Louis ?" she asked, in a husky guttural voice.

*' Never mind. Write as I tell you."

She hesitated a moment more, shaking
from head to foot. Then, with a great sigh,
as if she found it hard to draw breath, she
wrote.

*' What a scrawl, my child ! Never mind.
Now sign it, 'Madeline.' "

She did so, and he passed the blotting-paper
over it, took it from her, wrote one
word at the top of the page  it was the name
of a place she had never heard of  folded it,
put it into an envelope, and dictated the
direction : '' M. Stanton, Hotel Collet,
Lyons."

She made one outcry as he put the pen
again into her hand. " Oh Louis, for God's
sake tell me what it means !"

** It is all right, you shall know presently,
my darling," said he. '' Now you are tired ;
you had better go to bed at once. 1 came
up without finishing my cigar; I think I

must run down and have one in the courtyard."


Louis  one moment. I don't understand.
You must have overheard "

He laughed as he patted her shoulder good-humouredly.
'' Well, I confess it. When I
went to join you, I felt a little jealous to see
how well you and the Englishman seemed to
be getting on together ; so I followed you
pretty closely, and you know I have sharp
ears ; and when I saw you almost whispering
to him as you came towards me, I thought to
myself that I would play you a little trick to
puzzle you, and punish you for exchanging so
much as the shadow of a confidence with anyone
but your husband."

He gave her a long kiss which filled the
loving woman's eyes with light and life. But
through all the happiness which his unusual
tenderness woke in her, she did not forget to
whisper, *' Oh Louis, thank God, thank God!
You need never, never be jealous with me.
And your punishment was too hard. That
note  I  I don't know what mad fancies it
filled me with !"

And lie laughed at her and kissed her
again ; and she clung to him and forgot everything
else for the moment in the joy of feeling
his reviving tenderness. But when he had
gone down-stairs for his cigar, ugly misgivings
would rise again to trouble her.

Madeline was far too submissive by habifc
to think of disobeying any injunction of
Louis' ; therefore, as soon as he had left the
room, she went to bed, and dutifully tried to
go to sleep. But here her well-tried faculty'
of passive obedience broke down; that note
that Louis had forced her to write puzzled
and frightened her ; her husband's explanation
that he had made her do it for a trick seemed
lame and unsatisfactory, as she thought over
the incident with the terrible clearness with
which night shows us all things evil. Yet
the very suggestion that he could have had a
serious purpose in dictating to her that urgent
appeal to Mr. Staunton caused her to start
up cold and shuddering, and to rush to the
door, and, crouching beside it, listen intently

for Louis' footstep, in wild longing for his
presence to dispel a great fear.

But lie did not come. All through the
night she waited and watched, and the active
business of the day was in full swing before
she fell asleep, her last confused thought a
presentiment of coming evil. Broad daylight
brought a sharp knock at the door, and the
sight of Louis' handwriting on the note,
which the waiter handed her on the tray with
her morning coffee, was so suggestive after
the night's reflections, that she said to herself
before she touched it, ' He has deserted me."
Then she tore the envelope, and read the
letter twice through very quietly.

My darling Madeline," the note ran, '' I
know you will be delighted to hear that I
have most opportunely and unexpectedly
found some employment which, though it is
not of a kind to make our fortunes rapidly,
will at least relieve me from the terrible trial
I have suffered lately, of seeing my sweet
queen deprived of the dainty luxuries which
beauty has the right to demand. The nature

of my employment I will explain to you on
my return from Havre, where I shall be for
the next three weeks ; I need not tell you
that it is nothing unworthy of a gentleman,
yet my pride of birth made me hesitate to
avow to you that for your sake I had eon-descended
to do a clerk's work for a clerk's
wage. I enclose you some money  all I
have ; I will send you more when I have
earned it. Strange words for a De Breteuil
to use ! Do not mention my degradation  
alas, my pride still calls out !  to any one.
Bear up ; I shall clasp my darling in my
arms again before long. Adieu, my divine
one  no, cat revoir,  Your adoring and devoted


'' Louis."

The letter was in English, which the accomplished
De Breteuil spoke and wrote as
easily as French ; enclosed were two ten-franc
notes.

Madeline felt, on reading this letter, as if
all her love for her husband had suddenly
disappeared, and given place to a very hearty

disgust with his hypocrisy and selfishness.
She was such a clever woman that the
instincts of her passionate affection could not
always stifle the conclusions of her reason ;
moreover, having already had one bad
husband, the simple artifices by which a poor
fellow tired of his wife tries to satisfy her
and exonerate himself at the same time were
not unknown to her. She did not shed one
tear over the eloquent effusion which proved
to her conclusively that her second venture
had been little better than her first, and then
she wondered how it was that luck in this
matter of marriage was so strangely against
her. She thought the matter over before
her looking-glass, sitting down deliberately
in front of it and criticising herself very
dispassionately indeed ; it was a review that
could not be anything but favourable, for her
beauty was almost faultless, of a well-known
English type, that of the large, fair-skinned,
brown-haired woman, with gray eyes, dark
eyebrows and lashes, and a nose just not
straight enough to be severe.

' I am very handsome," was her conclusion,

while her face puckered up at last as
if she would like to cry. " I wonder why I
can't keep a man fond of me, when I am so
fond of him as I am  no, as I loss of Louis !
I wish I had a turned-up nose ; women with
turned-up noses are talkative and amusing,
while I am like nothing but a great silent
stupid doll."

She did herself injustice ; she was not
stupid. Her feelings were dull this morning
after the keen excitement of the night, and
reflection on the subject of man's perfidy had
already carried her as far as she could go ;
so she looked at the two ten-franc notes,
mentally added up the hotel-bill she would
have to pay at the end of the week, and
considered her position. She was a middle-class
girl, an orphan, born to economy, trained
to self-dependence ; her recent prosperity had
not lasted long enough to destroy certain
valuable instincts of thrift and self-help, and
a way out of her embarrassed financial
position soon evolved itself out of her more
sentimental reflections. She unlocked two
large trunks which occupied a considerable

space in the room, and took out two or three
of the handsome dresses which formed their
chief contents. For a very few moments
she stood lost in the brilliant dreamlike life
of love and idleness which the costumes
which she had worn during that period
recalled to her ; then she rang the bell and
asked if Mdlle. Rosalie could spare her a few
minutes.

Mdlle. Rosalie was the head chambermaid,
a shrewd, shrewish-looking elderly person, a
quick surface-reader of character  especially
bad character, and yet with a certain world-wise
strength in her face at times which was
not unattractive, and which justified Madeline's
choice of her for a confidant. Her appearance
on her entrance was not encouraging. She
had mentally labelled *' M. and Madame
Louis " on their first arrival respectively
'' knave " and '' fool," and there was a certain
expression of cheerful and triumphant
malignity on her face as she looked round the
room, and said brightly, " Madame va bien ?
et monsieur ?'

*' My husband has been called away suddenly

from Paris on business, Kosalie," said
Madeline, with some dignity. " And as he
has gone away for my sake, to make money
for me," she continued, repeating Louis' lie
with lips which she could scarcely keep steady,
I want on my side to spend as little as I
can during his absence ; and as I have no
friends in France, and I know you are a
woman of experience who can help me if you
will, I sent for you to ask if you would mind
telling me how to set about it."

*' And so monsieur has gone away !" cried
Rosalie, raising her eyebrows in exaggerated
surprise. 'rand left madame behind him to
economise by herself, which is dull work at
the best of times." But just then madame's
dignity began to show unmistakable signs of
giving way, and the dry old Frenchwoman
softened a little. " Ah, madame, these husbands
who can't be content with one wife,
however young and pretty she may be, they
are people it is best to have nothing to do
with. I never did," she added unnecessarily.
*' And how can I be of service to madame ?

VOL. I. 3

I will most willingly if I can' she added,
with some kindliness.

*' Thank you. Can you tell me where I
ought to go to try to sell some dresses ? I
have some very handsome ones that I have
only worn a few times, and that I shall not
want again'' she added, as Rosalie looked at
her curiously.

As she finished speaking, Madeline raised
the linen cover she had flung over the dresses
she had taken out of one of her trunks, and
displayed to the keenly-appreciative eyes of
the old Frenchwoman a tempting pile of silk
and satin, heavy brocade and delicate lace, at
which they both gazed for some moments, not
without reverence.

*' Ah, yes, that is the dress madame wore
yesterday," said Rosalie, venturing to lay a
diffident brown claw on one of them when her
black eyes had taken note of every fold. iritis
very beautiful."

Madeline opened the trunk again, and drew
out another and more showy costume, with
much red and gold, which had had a success
cV originality at Auteurs. Rosalie's intelligent

face lighted up suddenly at sight of it.
**Ah !" escaped sharply from her lips.

Madeline looked up. 'you have seen a
toilette like this before ?" she asked, trying to
speak carelessly.

*' No, madame ; I have only heard of one
toilette like that," answered Rosalie, whose
sharp eyes had noted every golden tassel,
every embroidered flower, on the crimson
velvet underskirt.

* Indeed ! and what toilette was that ?"

*' It was one worn at the races three months
ago by the mistress of the millionnaire, M. de
Breteuil."

Madeline had been prepared for a recognition,
and had stood trifling with the drapery
of a skirt, ready to parry a question or to
listen to an exclamation. But there was one
word in the chambermaid's speech that struck
her dumb ; she had sometimes wondered what
was the position assigned to her by her husband's
friends, but never before had she heard
her degradation taken for granted. She remained
silent for a few minutes, and Rosalie,
whose respect for her had evidently risen much

32

higher since the discovery that Madame Louis
was the woman whose beauty and magnificent
toilettes had been the talk of Paris, began to
fear that she had been indiscreet.

* Madame may rely on my discretion'
said she, with an elaborate air of mystery ;
'' and if, indeed, madame wishes to dispose of
these beautiful dresses, I can do so easily by
saying that they came into my hands through
your maid. I  I had heard," she continued,
*' that when M. de Breteuil started for India,
madame went with him ; therefore I did not
expect ever to have the honour "

She paused. Madeline's face had suddenly
changed. She had intended to correct the
mistake into which Kosalie had fallen, by
assuring her that she really was De BreteuiFs
wife ; but these last words told her that Louis
had not been recognised, and after a moment's
struggle she resolved to keep faithful to his
wish to remain unknown.

*did you ever see M. de Breteuil?" she
asked.

** No, madame. I recognised your marvellous
dress, because I had seen it at the

modiste's. I have a cousin who is employed
by Madame Periphrasis. But is madame sure
she will not need these dresses again ? I
know very well that ladies of madame' s position
do not wear their costumes more than a
few times ; but still, it seems a pity to part
with a dress like this "

'* I shall not want them again' said
Madeline, shuddering. ** I wish to sell them,
to realize all the money I can, to take some
cheap and quiet rooms, and to live by teaching.
If you cannot help me "

** On the contrary," broke in Kosalie vivaciously,
" I can help madame in all these
things. I know Paris well. I can recommend
madame to some charming apartments
in the house of a friend of mine, and to a
school where an English governess is required,
if madame really means to condescend "

*' To earn an honest living," finished Madeline
very quietly.

Rosalie heaved a deep sigh, and looked at
the young Englishwoman with puzzled pity.
*' Ah, what a man !" she murmured enthusiastically,
after a moment's pause. ** What

stories one hears about him, his magnificence,
his devil ! And all the while I know one
little thing about him which would make
people speak of him so differently."

'' And what is that ?" asked Madeline.

' Ah ! madame must excuse me. A secret
about a person in the great world is valuable
property sometimes ; and when M. de Breteuil
returns from his travels, and settles in Paris
again, I may perhaps make use of it. Most of
these great gentlemen have a leaf turned down
in their history, they say, which they would
willingly tear out altogether. However, that
is not our affair at present. I will serve you
to the best of my power, madame, and charge
you but a reasonable commission."

Madeline had no choice but to trust her ;
and finding that the woman did, as far as she
could tell, keep her secret and deal fairly by
her, she took two humble rooms in the course
of the next few days over the cigar-shop of an
ex-vivandie)'c, who was the friend Rosalie had
recommended, and set about obtaining employment
as a teacher of English.

She was surprised to find how easily she

had got over the wrench of parting from
Louis ; a few weeks ago, the mere thought of
a temporary separation, such as he had told
her those mysteriously altered fortunes of his
might render necessary, had seemed to her
only less horrible than a threat of a living
tomb. She could not understand herself.
Was she cold after all, she wondered, as her
first husband had said, that she could take so
calmly the desertion of a man she had loved
so much ? Her calmness, if she had but
known it, was the clue to the puzzle. The
excitement of her passionate devotion to her
husband, the torments of repressed jealousy
she had suffered as his ambition for popularity
seemed to take him further and further away
from her, the culminating madness of her
devotion when reverse of fortune gave him
again to her and her only, and carling disappointment
at the discovery that her love
could not make him happy, had worn the
woman out until nothing but the embers of
emotion seemed left in her. The necessity of
work gave her passionate heart rest ; and she
devoted herself to the details of the sale of

her dresses, of her installation in her two
shabby rooms, and to the search for pupils
with a sort of pleasure which amazed her.
The remembrance of Mr. Staunton's kindness,
the letter Louis had made her write, the
strange fears she had had about it, scarcely
occupied her any longer except as a vague
dream-like incident that had passed and had
no connection with that life which at present
seemed so very narrow to her. She would
work very hard, and she would do all the
good she could ; for she had a bourgeois feeling
that the luxurious life she had led for the
first ten months of her second marriage needed
some sort of expiation.

But the calm did not last long. On the
fourth evening after Louis' departure, she was
passing by the hotel where she had stayed
with him, when she saw him standing in the
jwrte cohere. She stopped short, the blood
rushing to her head, and making it throb, and
dimming her sight. She was on the other
side of the road, and he did not look up ; but
she knew that he saw her, for Louis saw
everything and everybody, and it was one of

his amiable characteristics to let this friends
pass him, to save himself the trouble of a
salutation. Madeline's love had flashed into
full life at the first sight of him ; but even as
impulse urged her to rush across the road to
him, reason, waking too, told her that to do
so would be to put herself again at the mercy
of a cold and selfish tyrant, who did not want
her, and who would make her pay a heavy
price for his toleration of the infirmity of her
affection. After a struggle with herself so
short and so sharp that it was only like one
agonizing pang, she stepped forward to continue
her walk ; then Louis looked at her with
an expression which was in reality simply one
of astonishment, but to her dazzled, blinded,
remorseful eyes it seemed eloquent with reproach
and wounded feeling. In the same
moment it struck her that he looked ill, and
pale, and anxious ; and as she reached his
side she whispered humbly, slipping her hand
into his, and looking into his eyes with the
simple devotion of a dog, who does not concern
himself with the faults of his master:
** Forgive me."

Louis nodded at her magnanimously, though
he had not the slightest idea for what she asked
his forgiveness. She put her arm through his,
and led him in the direction of her new abode.

' I have had to take two cheaper rooms,
Louis. I am afraid you won't like them, for
they are rather small and not very well
furnished," she said, with some anxiety.

Oh, well, you know I am not particular,"
said he heroically. And she assented to this
with inward doubt.

** Where have you been, Louis ?" she
asked, looking up at him affectionately.
'' You have been disappointed in the work
you went away for."

She felt his arm tremble for a second, and
he said sharply, '' "What do you mean ?
What makes you say that ?"

* Why, you said in your letter you would
be in Havre three weeks, and you are back
already."

'* Too soon, I suppose ?"

*' Oh yes, of course !"

The joy that thrilled the woman's low
voice as she uttered these words with a lazy

laugh full of intense unspeakable happiness
made it plain that she wanted no explanations,
that the fact of his return was enough
for her. Still he explained, with great care,
deliberation, and clearness.

I learnt on arriving at Havre," he said,
that the correspondent whose place I had
gone to take was able to return much sooner
than he had expected, so that, finding my
occupation gone, I came back at once, eager
to see my darling ; but found, to my surprise,
that you had left the hotel."

Madeline said nothing ; she was in a
passion of self-reproach at her suspicions of
him ; she could only press his arm silently,
and, as they had now reached the house
where she lodged, she hurried him affectionately
upstairs to her little sitting-room on the
top floor, lit the lamp, for evening was
closing in, and took up a basket With which
she always did her marketing.

*snow," said she, as she put a chair to
the table for him, '' I will leave you to enjoy
your paper, while I go and get something
nice for supper in honour of your return."

She kissed his forehead tenderly, and left
him. But away from the enchantment of
his actual presence, doubts crowded again
thickly in her mind. She began to perceive
that it was not love which had brought him
back to her ; that even in his reception of
her enthusiastic welcome his toleration of her
was even colder than it had been before :
perhaps it was poverty, perhaps it was
custom, but it was not affection which had
restored him to her; and she knew Louis
too well to suppose that it was duty. The
thought of Mr. Staunton flashed again across

her mind, but then Thank heaven !

Louis had come back poor, so her fear that
he would work upon the Englishman's kindness
was proved groundless. And again the
old hope that her devotion might win the
whole of Louis' heart woke up in her, and
she rejoiced in the power her early training
had given her of working for him now that
reverse of fortune had dulled for a time his
energy and his spirits. Inspired by the
proud feeling of being able to do a little
towards repaying her husband for the happiness

he had been the first to make her taste,
she indulged in an extravagant outlay for
supper, and returning home, went upstairs
with a soft tread, thinking she would surprise
Louis by her speedy return. So she stole on
tiptoe into her bedroom, took off her bonnet,
and crept up to the looking-glass to arrange
her hair by the very little daylight there was
left.

In the midst of the flutter of bright excitement
into which her little trick had
thrown her, she was startled by hearing a
sound like a deep groan from the next room.
For a few moments she stood still, comb in
hand, listening ; but she heard nothing furthermore
alarming than the noise of a chair
being pushed back a little way. But the
fright, slight though it was, had damped her
spirits, and it was with a slower hand that
she took off her walking-dress and felt under
the dressing-table for her slippers. She could
not at first find them, and as she stretched
her arm out further in the search she touched
something close against the wall. Drawing
it out, she saw in the faint light that it

looked like a man's shirt, rolled up and
fastened with a pin. Her first impression
was that it had been forgotten under the
dressing-table by a former occupant of the
room ; but just at the moment that she
instinctively took the pin out, the door
opened so suddenly that she uttered a little
cry of surprise as Louis burst into the room.

** Who's there ?" he called, in a loud harsh
voice.

'rit's all right, Louis; it's only I 
Madeline," she said, astonished by the sharpness
of his tone and by a wild scared look
on his face as his eyes seemed to flash round
the darkening room.

His glance then fell upon her as she sat on
the floor in deep shadow.

' Get up, then ; get up. What are you
hiding away there for ?" he asked sharply.

'' I am not hiding, Louis," she answered
gently, and was moving to get up when he
caught sight of the object in her hand.

'' What have you got there ?" said he,
and, stooping, he snatched it from her.

As he did so, with grasp not quite steady,

the shirt unrolled itself; and with horror
which seemed to stop her breath, Madeline
saw that on the cuffs, the front of the collar,
and far up on one of the sleeves, were great
dark stains.

"What is it? What is it?" she asked,
in a broken guttural whisper, after a minute's
silence, during which, with a curse, De
Breteuil had rolled it up again and tried to
thrust it into one of his pockets.

'rit is nothing  nothing. At least if you

must know But no, it would only

frighten you."

'' Tell me, tell me !"

*' Well, don't be frightened. As I was
walking by myself the day before yesterday
in a lonely place, near a wood, I was
attacked "

*' Attacked ! By a man ?"

*' No, no; by a wolf."

'eat Havre!"

"No. The fact is, I have deceived you,
My reverse of fortune, my inability to provide
for you, had driven me half mad, and I resolved
to commit suicide. I drove to St.

Lazar, took the first train that started, found
myself in the morning at Nevers ; I took
another train to Autumn, which I know well,
where there are woods, where I thought I
would shoot myself quietly. I was attacked,
as I tell you, by a wolf, and in defending myself,
my instinctive clinging to life woke
again. I came back to Paris, not intending
to inflict my wretched presence upon you."

*' Then those marks  those stains  are
blood ?" she interrupted fearfully.

*' Yes, yes ; but only my wrists  nothing
serious. Don't be alarmed."

But she was not reassured ; some horrible
thought had taken possession of her. She
got up, and without a word more walked,
with undecided, staggering steps, and with
the fumbling slowness of a half-witted person,
through the door which led into the sitting-room.
De Breteuil half called to her ; but as
she paid no heed he began humming an air
with hard forced liveliness, and did not immediately
follow her. When he did so, she was
sitting with her back to him at the table,
poring over the newspaper as he had done.

*' Well," said he cheerfully , " any news ?"

But as he laid his hand on her shoulder
she felt the touch of it grow suddenly heavy :
for he saw what it was that she was reading,
and knew what significance she gave to it.
It was a paragraph which ran as follows :

** The name of the English gentleman whoso
suddenly and mysteriously disappeared
from the Hotel Collet, Lyons, on Tuesday,
after leaving word that he should return intime
for dinner, has been ascertained to be
Staunton or Stanton. He is said to have
had property of value with him, and it is conjectured
that he may have met with foul play.
He was last seen at five minutes past two on
Tuesday afternoon at the railway-station of
Neville "

Neville ! Madeline read no further : it
was the name Louis had scrawled on the top
of the note he had made her write to Mr.
Staunton. In a moment she understood the
horrible share he had forced her to take in a
scheme of appalling cowardice, treachery, and
ingratitude. There was complete silence in
the room for a few leaden moments ; then she

VOL. I. -1

raised her head and met De Breteuil's shifting,
sidelong look, and he read the terrible
indictment in her eyes.

For all the man's audacity, the opinion of
others floated or sank him ; now that this
woman knew his ghastly secret and showed
her abhorrence in her face, his features wore
the hunted, degraded look of the coward and
the cut throat. He could not meet her wild
eyes, and after standing for a few moments
restlessly before her, he suddenly turned,
snatched up his hat, and slunk out of the
room towards the staircase. He had gone
some steps down when a hoarse whisper from
above stopped him.

' Louis, where are you going ?"

'' I don't know. And what is that to you,
as long as you get rid of me ?"

His voice was low, hard, reckless, the
voice of a man in the lowest stage of abject
hopelessness. A pause, and then he went
down another stair.
"* Louis!"

swells'

*' You will let me know where you go ?"

* Why ? why ?"

The woman who can turn a man off just
when the whole world is against him does
not deserve that he should remember her."

Her apparent reluctance to part with him,
even now, was causing his self-esteem to revive,
and his voice was not without grandiloquent
sonorit}

'louis, I did not turn you off  I don't
turn you off. Come back. I am your wife ; I
will comfort you, save you. It was only
that  that  I was so happy  to have you
back ; and then the change was so sudden 
and so dreadful ! Come !"

For an instant he tried to assume a dignified
attitude of hesitation, but the offer was
too evidently one not to be refused. He
turned, slunk up the stairs, and shuffled back
into the sitting-room. There at last a spark
of gratitude was struck out of the craven
nature, and he fell, sobbing and murmuring
incoherent thanks, on to the neck of the
woman who had stood every test, caressing
her and calling her his comfort, his salvation.

42

f OF ILL LIB.

But the sound of his voice was changed in
her ears, and the touch of his hand thrilled
her not now with tenderness, but with horror.
For her love was dead. It had died in the
moment that she learnt that he was a traitor
and a coward ; and as he buried his head on
her shoulder, and poured out the passionate
words for which she had longed as the desert-parched
traveller for water, only the resolution
that straightened her lips, and the sense
of duty that shone in her cold eyes, enabled
her to force down her disgust, and to bear
like a lifeless statue the kisses of the husband
for whom a week ago she would have died.

Tie moment when Madeline de Breteuil's
sense of her duty as a wife had triumphed
over her loathing for a cowardly crime had
been to Louis a revelation in his knowledge
of women so astonishing, so complete, that a
revival of her love for him might, perhaps,
have worked in his hard yet not specially
strong character some sort of repentance,
some sort of temporary reformation. But
that was beyond her power. Pity for his
abject state after her discovery of his
crime lent her manner a gentleness which
he mistook at first for the old fondness ;
but he was too sharp-sighted to be long
deceived ; and when he found that it was
with difficulty that she schooled herself to
receive his tardy advances passively, that

she would talk, laugh, work, cook, do anything
to keep him for a little while at a
distance, his wretched pride took fire, and he
kept aloof from her in sullen disdain, which
she could only make most faint-hearted efforts
to break through.

There is a touch of nobility, a grace
beyond the reach of commonplace humanity,
in a nature which can bear the strain of
a deep gratitude. When Louis de Breteuil
discovered that Madeline would not break
the monotony of his retirement from the
world by returning his reviving passion,
he soon found the burden of his debt to her
extremely irksome. But he had no money,
and for the moment seemed to be without
the energy to make any, by fair means or
foul ; and Madeline, whom early training had
taught to be frugal, could at least, with
the proceeds of the sale of her dresses and
with her small earnings, keep both him and
herself from starving.

So they passed ten days of an uneasy
domesticity : Madeline living in a fever of
horrible imaginings, picturing the murder

about which she dared not question him,
fearing that the police might be on his track ;
while he, on the contrary, seemed to fall into
a state of torpor, in which  as far as his wife
could see  neither remorse nor apprehension
had any share. She wondered how it was
that, since robbery was his only possible
motive, Louis seemed now to be worse off
than ever ; for, whatever his moral defects
might be, he was far too keen of intellect to
handicap himself with the dangerous responsibilities
of an unnecessary crime. She knew
also that the securities which Mr. Staunton
had told her, in Louis' hearing, that he
had with him would be property so dangerous
as to be almost valueless in the hands of
a man unconnected with the Stock Exchange
and ignorant of the course of affairs on it.
At first De Breteuil spent all his time indoors,
smoking, and reading novels in stolid indifference
to everything but the quality of the
meals she provided. But at the end of a
week he showed signs of awakening restlessness,
and went regularly out by himself for
twenty minutes at a time every morning and

every night. He never brought home any
newspapers and never asked to see any, but
MadeHne used to buy and read them with
feverish haste on her way to and from the
school where she now gave lessons in English
for two hours every day.

Twice she read short paragraphs stating
that nothing further had been heard of the
missing Englishman ; but the affair had
evidently taken no hold upon public curiosity
until the tenth day after Louis' return, when
a long sensational article appeared in the
Figaro, containing copies of telegrams sent
from London to Turin, from Turin to London,
and from both these places to Marseilles and
Lyons, all concerning an English stockbroker
who had not been heard of for thirteen days,
and who was supposed to have absconded
with securities to the amount of between
eighteen and twenty thousand pounds. The
missing man had held the high character
essential to a daring and successful coup of this
kind, and the fact that for more than a week
no letters or telegrams had been received
from him had aroused no suspicion until the

discovery was made that certain shares openly
sold on the London Stock Exchange were the
property of a client of Mr. Staunton, a
gentleman residing at Turin. It was a clerk
in Mr. Staunton's office who made this
discovery and communicated it to the junior
partner. The latter at once set inquiries on
foot, and traced the sale of the shares, for the
delivery of which in Turin Mr. Staunton had
been responsible, to a young clerk on the
Stock Exchange, who had disappeared on the
morning after the fortnightly account, after
cashing to the amount of several thousand
pounds the cheques he had received for the
sale of shares and bonds which, on examination,
proved to correspond, with the exception
of some foreign bonds not easily negotiable
which had disappeared, with the property a
Mr. Staunton had undertaken to deliver to his
client at Turin. The Figaro gave the name
of the absconding clerk, supposed to be in
collusion with the defaulting Mr. Staunton, a&
'' Reddish."

Madeline crept home that afternoon almost
stupefied by the weight of guilt which seemed

to fall only on her. It was four o'clock
"when she reached her little sitting-room, and
Louis was out. She sat for a few minutes
staring stupidly at the white clouds in the
sky ; then, having long ago exhausted every
feeling of suspicion, misery, and fear, sho
rose and wondered dully why her husband
did not return. It was the first time he had
been out at this hour, and the fear seized her
that suspicion might have fallen on him,
and that he might be already in the grasp of
the law. She had not yet taken off hei
bonnet, so she ran downstairs to watch
and wait for him in the street. He never
told her where he went during his daily
absences, so that it was chance which made
her turn to the left, stop at the first corner,
and look up and down the street which
crossed hers, until she saw, going into a
cabaret some distance off, two men, one of
whom she fancied she recognised as Louis.
She went quickly up the street in that
direction, and, unnoticed in the crowd of
foot-passengers, managed to peep into the
little wine-shop. Sitting at a table close to

the door were the two men whose entrance
she had watched. One of them was De
Breteuil, and lie saw at the first glance that
his sullen listlessness was gone. He was
flushed and animated, his head was erect, and
he wore, for the first time since his downfall
not into crime, but into poverty  the
expression of bold and cynical recklessness
which had been the most striking and the
most admired characteristic of his face in the
days when he was king of the fashions of the
boulevards.

Madeline noticed all this curiously, wondering
what was the reason of the change in
him ; and then she saw him put his right hand
which was the one nearest to the window 
carelessly into his coat-pocket, and draw out
a tight little roll of paper, with an elastic
band round it. He slipped off the elastic,
and, smoothing out the papers, began to count
them : and she saw that they were English
bank-notes. "Whose money was that?"
she asked herself, shivering and pressing closer
to the window. She had been so fascinated
as she watched every movement of Louis'

that her eyes had not turned for a second to
his companion, whose back was towards her.
she would have been able, had she left the
window at that moment, to tell that he was
short and broad, and shabbily dressed, but
no more. However, at that moment he sat
back and moved his chair a few inches, so
that the light might fall upon the glass of
wine he held in his hand ; and by the movement,
though she could not see his face, she
knew him. It was her first husband, Robert
Meredith !

The moment after her recognition of him,
Madeline suddenly remembered where she was,
suddenly became conscious of the hurrying
crowd around her, and glanced from right to
left with a hot blush in her face, under the
impression that she had uttered a wild shriek ;
but no one was taking the least notice of her.
So she looked again, shaking from head to
foot, and trying to understand. One thing
only in the confusion of her mind was clear
to her : she was not the wife of a murderer.
Her heart leapt up with passionate relief at
the thought. But fast upon that followed the

consciousness of the terrible position in which
the perfidy of these two wretches had placed
her ; and then came the longing to be revenged
upon them both, a longing fierce and
hungry as the impulses of an enraged animal,
as she stood panting before the window, with
her hands curved like claws, her great eyes
luminous with passion, and her red lips parted
in straight lines over teeth that looked hideous
and dangerous in their gleaming whiteness.
Again she had lost herself in intent savage
contemplation of the two men, when a disagreeable
croaking laugh close at her ear
startled her. Turning her head sharply, she
saw Kosalie, the old chambermaid, whose lean
leather-coloured face was wrinkled up with
most flattering interest in her neighbour's
affairs. She glanced alternately at Madeline
and at the pair in the wine-shop, and seemed
to perceive enough significance in the situation
to enjoy it most heartily. Still, she
was evidently curious to understand it better,
and she gently detained the young Englishwoman
by the hand as she was turning
abruptly away.

' Pardon, madame' croaked she softly,
*' I have not met you for a whole week, and
I should so much like to know how you are
getting on, if you would he so kind as to let
me walk with you a little way."

Madeline assented with no very clear intention,
but with the feeling that this shrewd
Frenchwoman, vvith her world-knowledge and
her professed acquaintance with a secret in
Louis' life, might be useful or might be
dangerous, but was not to be despised. She
gave one last look into the wine-shop, where
De Breteuil, still in high spirits, was trying
to raise those of his companion to the same
level by liberal draughts of wine, which the
other swallowed steadily, and cursed for
*' d  d French rubbish" at the same time.
Then the two women moved away together,
and Madeline told the other that she had
some pupils and hoped to have more, and
that she was getting on very well indeed.
But Rosalie's information was ahead of all this.

** And monsieur has come back, I hear,
so that madame is no longer dull," she suggested
simply.

'soli no, I am not dull," said Madeline,
with irrepressible bitterness.

' And monsieur looks gayer than he used
to do while at the hotel ; I never saw a man
more changed in a short time. I used to
think how hard it was for a devoted young
wife to see her husband so miserable ; but today
"

Madeline turned sharply towards her, with
such a look of agony on her face that the
woman's tongue stopped.

We will not talk of him," Madeline said,
with difficulty; '* he is  not  my husband."
And the shame of the woman, as she faltered
out the terrible admission, with an effort to
assume a tone of callous indifference, brought
a blush into her face which burnt like a
brand. *' Let us talk of M. de Breteuil; he
was a nobler man, he would not have treated
me as this  this Louis, Monsieur Louis, is
doing. I cannot bear it  I hate him, he
neglects me ; I  I think I am  tired of
him."

But the affectation of flippant indifference
with which she said this was far too transparent

to deceive Rosalie, who shrugged her
shoulders, but looked rather sorry for her.

**Ah, yes, M. de Breteuil, he would no
doubt have treated madame differently," said
she, in a tone from which it was impossible
to tell whether or no she guessed M. Louis'
identity. '' He did everything en pinceJ'

*yet you told me once that you knew
something which would change people's
opinion of him ? Will you tell me the
secret, Rosalie ?"

* I cannot, madame. I am getting old, I
am nearly fifty, and I look upon that little
secret as property which may some day
increase my income  a retiring pension,
perhaps, when my limbs grow too stiff for
active service."

' I cannot afford to buy secrets now, but I
have still, as you can see, some fondness left
for M. de Breteuil, and I should not like to
see him hurt without "

*' Without having a hand in the matter. I
understand, madame," said Rosalie simply.
And her keen commercial instinct perceiving
a possible customer, she added, ' I shall be

probably at the same hotel for the rest of my
working days, madame, and the proprietor,
M. Denis, will always be able to give you my
address when I leave. I hope madame will
never be so ill-advised as to  to attempt to
quarrel with, or to stand against, M. de
Breteuil," she added, in a kindlier tone of
warning. ' You are young, handsome ; you
have the world before you, and with the
power of your beauty you can rule men 
other men. But leave M. de Breteuil alone.
He has resources you do not know of, which
you had better not guess. If you are dissatisfied
with his treatment of you, revenge
yourself, but on other men. Believe me, it
would be better for you to throw yourself into
the Seine, or even to be scarred with smallpox,
than to tempt Fate by defying M. de
Breteuil."

'thank you, Rosalie," said Madeline,
more impressed by the unexpected earnestness
of the hard-featured woman, with the
lines of avarice and suspicion so strongly
marked in her face, than by the warning,
which she did not entered to heed.

VOL. I. 5

They were at the corner of the street.
The young Englishwoman held out her hand,
which the other took with more than conventional
respect.

I shall not see you again, Rosalie, for I
am going to leave Paris very soon."

Good-bye, madame ; wherever you maybe
going, I wish you all prosperity and
happiness."

But even as she spoke this good wish, it
was evident that the last part was only a
conventional utterance, for in the face of the
young Englishwoman as she thanked her and
walked away there was a fixed, hard expression
which told that faith and hope, the
springs of happiness, were dried up in her
for ever.

Madeline, left alone, reached her rooms
very quickly, unlocked one of her large
trunks, and began to pack it for a journey.
She collected the few things she wanted to
take with her besides what it already contained,
and felt pleased to find that the one
trunk would hold everything she wanted.
Then, when she had only the top tray left to

fill, she remembered that she must pay her
rent up to the end of the week, and going
quickly downstairs to the little cigar-shop,
she found her landlady, haggled with much
spirit over the point of the next week's rent
in lieu of notice which the ex-vivandiere
wanted to exact, and came upstairs again
victorious, after having persuaded her to be
content without it, and, moreover, to buy fora
small sum her spare trunk and a few other
things she could not take away with her.
She was tossing on to the floor out of her
writing-case a couple of notes and a dried
flower out of a bouquet from Louis, when the
sound of his footsteps on the stairs suddenly
destroyed her busy calmness, and forced her
to lean, trembling and cold with dread, upon
the edge of the trunk she was filling.

She heard him enter the sitting-room, singing.
He called her by name, and the sound
of his voice, to which she did not reply,
braced her for the meeting. When he flung
open the bedroom door, she was still on her
knees, quietly packing.

*' Madeline!" said he, in astonishment.

52

*' What on earth are you doing ? Didn't
you hear me call you ?"

*eyes," said she quietly, "I heard you;
but I am busy rearranging my trunks."

Her tone evidently surprised him. He
had been used lately to tones in which duty
predominated over love, but to-day even the
duty seemed to fail. He stepped forward
into the room, stooped down, and looked into
her face. His own was bright with the same
expression of gay triumph and content which
it had worn in the wine-shop.

"You are dull, my princess'' said he carelessly.
* You have lived too long in these
wretched little pigeon-holes ; you must come
back to the boulevards, and your spirits will
come back with new dresses and new trinkets.
No wonder you are pining : it is three months
since you have worn diamonds."

"I don't want diamonds indeed, Louis,
thank you."

** Ah, well, the taste will come back with
the means of satisfying it. You want change,
you want excitement, Madeline ; thank
Heaven! I have at last the means of supplying

you with them. To-night we will
dine together at Brabant's ; and champagne
shall bring the colour to your cheeks, and
the light to your eyes, and the love to your
heart too ; even that has run a little dry of
late for want of its proper food of presents
and playthings'

Madeline looked up suddenly : it was
impossible that he did not know the absurdity
of his accusation. Yet he stood there playing
with his purse, as light-hearted, as full of
happy excitement, as a schoolboy who has
just been ** tipped " by his maiden aunt with
a five-pound note.

'* Look here," he went on, without noticing
her expression or without heeding it. And
he took her left hand and poured into it a
dozen or so of twenty-franc pieces. He felt
her hand twitch and tremble as if the coins
had been red-hot, but he closed her fingers
upon them and laughed into her face.
These will ease the burden of life a little,
I think, Madeline."

Again she looked up at him, her face pale
and damp, her great eyes glistening.  Where

did you get this money ?" she asked slowly,
in a voice so hoarse, so hard, so unlike her
own, that he dropped her hand, and stepped
back from her impatiently.

*' Who has put it into your head to catechise
me ?" he asked coldly, *' and to treat
me to an rehearsed tragedy when I offer
you the pleasures you used to delight in ?
You should not ask questions, especially
when you know that you would not be
satisfied with the answers. The best thing
you can do now, Madeline, is to forget as
quickly as possible the disagreeable interlude
of poverty and wretchedness which I would
have spared you if I could, come back with
me to the bright life you enjoyed so much,
and rely upon me not to let such an unfortunate
accident disturb your peace again'*

*' Unfortunate accident!" she repeated
stupidly.

'eyes; and take care, you are dropping
your money. You will find it slip through
your fingers quite fast enough ; and then, for
all your contempt for it, you will come asking
me for more."

' More ! More of this money!" she
whispered huskily, as, opening her hand, she
let the gold fall on to the floor, and drew her
dress away from it. Then she cleared her
throaty and, attempting to go on with the
work of arranging the contents of her trunk,
she added quietly, with strong constraint upon
herself : '' You have misunderstood me, Louis ;
I have never cared much for your money'

*' Perhaps I have misunderstood you less
than you think, Madeline," said he, with
some tenderness, as he drew a little nearer
to her ; and she grew suddenly still, fearing
lest he should touch her again, knowing as
she did that she should not be able to bear
the horror of it a second time. She wanted
to repress herself until he should leave her,
so that she might escape quietly and without
disturbance out of his sight, out of his reach.
But he continued in tones that grew warmer
as he proceeded: *you think, perhaps, that
because I have been too much cast down of
late either to cheer you or be cheered by you,
I have not noticed your devotion, or been
touched by it. But I have. And though

the weight of anxiety upon me has made me
morose and bearish to you, I have said to
myself all the time, * When the cloud has
passed, she will have her reward It has
passed now, and my ill-humour has melted as
your coldness must melt, and we will have
the old times, and better times still, Madeline,
and to-night we must seal the new bond with
champagne and laughter'

He flung his arm round her as she cowered
on the floor. But she wrenched herself
shivering away from him, and rose, white
and panting, to her feet. For one moment
he paused, drawing himself up with a frown
which frightened her ; then he threw the end
of his cigar out of the window, and crossed
the room to her.

Is this the congratulation I am to receive
from my wife ?" And he laid his hand
heavily on her shoulder. '* Come, be reasonable.
Kiss me  say you're sorry."

Madeline was tall and broad and strong 
in physical strength almost his equal ; moved
by an overpowering impulse of rage, terror,
and disgust, she pushed him away from her

with such force that he fell staggering back
against the door of the small room. *' Don't
touch me' she hissed as he recovered himself;
*' I am not your wife V

De Breteuil steadied himself, and made no
further attempt to approach her; but the
horrible pallor of his dark face as he looked
across at her, and the lurid light that seemed
to shoot out of his black eyes, for an instant
made him appear less than human. Whether
he had seen her at the window of the wine-shop
that afternoon she did not know, but he
said quietly : '' That is true, and if you are
anxious to go back to the husband who got
over your loss so easily, you are quite at
liberty to do so. But if you are wise you
will stay with me, and thank Heaven I am
still willing to have you. I may be as great
a villain as he, but at any rate I am a more
successful one. No woman has ever had forme
the charm you have had since I found
you ready to stick to me through everything,
in spite of circumstances which I own would
have frightened off a namby-pamby woman.
I will forgive you the little outburst of this

afternoon, I will love you the more for it ;
and if you will stay with me I will give you
everything in the world you can wish for,
provided only that you will have the sense to
be content with your own happiness, and not
pry into the means used to procure it. Will
you love me on those terms ?"

*' No. I loathe you from the very depths of
my soul. I bore with you, sheltered you in
spite of my horror at your crime, because I
believed you to be my husband ; now my joy
at finding I am not bound to you is stronger
even than the sense of my own degradation.
You have tricked me shamefully "

'* Nonsense !" he interrupted sharply.
'' You were lonely, poor, deserted by a
scoundrel ; I gave you  you acknowledged it
love and fortune and happiness. I respected
you enough to know that you would
not come with me except as my wife ; therefore
I had to prove to you that your husband
was dead. Now that you have found out
that he is alive, the best thing you can do is
to forget it again."

*' Unfortunately I cannot, for I have found
out more than that," said she slowly.

There was a pause, during wliicli they
looked at each other steadily. Madeline had
cast off all restraint, and the hatred that
shone out of her gray eyes and made lines in
her beautiful face was not less strong and
scarcely less terrible than the fiendish malignity
that from time to time flashed out from
his, when her fierce words stung him.

'' What have you found out ?"

** I have found out that you and my dear
husband have entered into a partnership
which ought to be a most successful one  fora
time. You are hard and daring, he is
clever and easily led ; he has a conscience it
is easy to stifle, you have no conscience at
all. Don't scowl at me  I am not afraid of
you ; I know you both well, though I have
only learnt the lesson this afternoon. But
some day success in crime, for I suppose you
will hardly stop at one robbery and one
murder  yes, murder!  Touch me if you
dare !" as he started menacingly, with scowling,
livid face, staring at her in the dusk over
the open trunk and the scattered unpacked
trifles that strewed the disordered room.

'' Some clay success will make you careless,
and one of you will make some little slip 
my husband most likely, in a fit of drunken
pleasure or drunken remorse," said she, with
biting contempt; 'rand that little mistake,
whatever it may be, will be forgotten, and
you will think yourselves safe. But wherever
and whenever you make it, I shall find
it out  I, the woman whom you have both
conspired to ruin and degrade as no loving
woman, as I was, ever was degraded yet.
And I will work and wait and watch,
wherever you are and whatever you are doing,
until I have made a net about your feet
which will bring you both down."

It was not a pleasant discourse to have to
listen to from the white lips of a woman
whose eyes seemed to shoot fire, and whose
voice grew lower and lower, until the last
words were hissed into the ears of the man
before her with a venom which left its mark.
As she ended, De Breteuil sprang at her ; but
she was prepared for this, and, evading him,
she ran round her trunk to the bell-rope, and
pulled it twice violently. This movement

brought her to the door of the sitting-room,
which she pushed open.

"What did you do that for'' asked he
savagely.

To call up Madame Despond."

What do you want her for ?"

'' I wish to declare before a witness that
you are the murderer of Mr. Staunton ; that
you are in collusion with Robert Meredith,
who disposed of the stock stolen from Mr.
Staunton by you ; that "

** Are you mad ?"

"No. If sou wish to avoid exposure,
leave me this instant ; if you remain, I
svvear "

She had said enough  she had looked
enough. De Breteuil opened the outer door,
against which he was standing, and treated
her to one last scowl, which would have
frightened anyone but an enraged woman.
Nothing more impressive than the ordinary
threat of the wife-beating costermonger occurred
to him, but he said it with more than
the costermonger's significance : " I've not
done with you yet !"

As footsteps were heard upon the stairs, he
slipped out of the room.

When De Breteuil rejoined his accomplice,
his spirits had fallen a good deal, and in explanation
he told Meredith of the scene which
had just taken place. He made light of
Madeline's threats, hut the other was really
alarmed.

** Fancy her turning so nasty !" he said
plaintively. *' I don't half like it, that I
don't ; she always was a woman for keeping
her word''

*' All infernal bravado; she can prove
nothing," said De Breteuil shortly.

*' But won't you keep her in sight ? I
think it would be safer."

*not so easy, and not worth while.
Before the week is out she will have found
some one able to make her forget you and me."

'rand a good thing too! For she was a
lot too good for either of us," said the other,
with maudlin compunction. 'couldn't you
couldn't you at least find out what she's
going to do, and if  if she's got money, and
is is all right ?"

He insisted until De Breteuil, moved also
by another motive, went round to the house
that evening, crept upstairs, and tried to
open the doors of the rooms Madeline had
occupied. But they were locked. He went
downstairs to make inquiries, and found that
she had left Paris two hours before, alone.

And as he lit a fresh cigar he drew out of
his pocket with his match-box a little case
that looked as if it contained a pipe, and,
opening it, looked affectionately at a beautiful
little revolver which lay in it, and congratulated
himself that Madeline's abrupt disappearance
had saved him from a dangerous
temptation.

** But if we should ever cross each other's

path again " he said to himself aloud.

And without finishing his sentence, he blew
out the match with which he had lit his
cigar, and tossed it away.

END OF PROLOGUE.

It is the end of March, 1883  ten years and
eight months since the long-forgotten disappearance
of the English stockbroker, Mr.
Staunton. After a mild winter, the weather
has suddenly changed, the air has become
keen and cold, and the north wind sweeps
over the flat country round Calais and St.
Omer, biting more sharply than frost, bending
low the bare branches of the poplar-trees that
border the roads, and nipping the cold faces
and fingers of the few peasants at work in the
fields.

It had been a hard winter for the poor
about there, both in town and country. The
lace factories of Calais and St. Pierre had not
been in full work ; there had been sickness in
the villages, press of poverty among the unemployed.

The poor of St. Pierre, and of
the district lying for some miles to the east
of the town of Calais, found especial cause for
complaint ; for the old cure of the former
place, a man whose devotion to his parishioners
during the cholera plague of 1866 had made
him their ido], was ill himself; and the little
country house, where the peasantry of the
barren sandy sea-coast had been always sure
of a draught in time of sickness or a dinner
in time of want, was half shut up, its invalid
master, Mr. Beresford, having spent the
winter at Nice.

Yet one more trouble, more vivid, more
ghastly than the rest, had made the months
of darkness and cold terrible to the unfortunate
country people. Every afternoon, as the
weak winter sunlight faded out of the sky and
the mist rose higher and higher from the
ground, the solitary worker in the fields, the
man walking by himself along the high-road,
would cross himself, if he was religious, and
would, in any case, keep a sharp look-out if
he had to pass a bit of hedge, a clump of
trees, or any object which might afford a

VOL. T. 6

hiding-place ; and he would turn quickly round
from time to time, to glance behind him and
make sure that he was not followed. For
there was an enemy about, whose shape no
one knew. Some said it was a Adolf that the
winter had brought from the far-off Ardennes,
which attacked lonely travellers by night, and
prowled round farmhouses and round the
staring white buildings with perpendicular
roofs and symmetrically shuttered windows,
where retired tradesmen lived with their
families. And the more stubbornly ignorant
and unprogressive minds thought that it was
the devil, with the traditional panoply of horns
and hoofs and tail, that had been seen, always
at night, lurking in the vicinity of houses
which the morning light showed to have been
entered and robbed. But others argued that
neither wolf nor devil would find a use for the
money which seemed to be the sole object
of the unknown marauder ; and it was these
cooler-headed reasoners who laid stress upon
the fact that, with very sound human judgment,
these attacks were always made upon persons
whose pockets repaid the trouble of plunder.

But uo one could make anything better thana
wildly speculative guess as to what rogue
it was who, living in their midst, and having
an intimate acquaintance with their affairs,
had turned his knowledge to account in this
audacious and discreditable manner ; and as
the victims declared unanimously that it was
no man that, with burning eyes and white
fangs, had pulled them down, and blinded
them, and growled over them, and held them
fast, until they heard a faint whistle and suddenly
found themselves free, no supporter of
either opinion could bring convincing proof
of the truth of the one he held.

In the towns these petty robberies excited
little attention, until a victim of superior position
to the rest, a notary, who had been
attacked while returning in his carriole to his
home in Ordres, after drawing some money
from a bank in Calais, clamoured loudly at
his loss, and raised an outcry against the
supineness of the police in the matter. He
wrote and he talked, until people were forced
to read and forced to listen, and a spice of
warmer interest was imparted to the affair by

62

his mysterious hints that he could give more
than a guess at the identity of his assailant ;
so that within four or five days after the
attack, M. Dupont's appearance in any public
place became an event of interest, and his innuendoes,
which grew daily clearer, concerning
young men with expensive tastes and niggardly
parents, stimulated public curiosity and
gave rise to much speculative controversy.

It was on the sixth day after his loss that,
in the buffet of the Hotel de la Gare in Calais,
M. Deportment so far as to give a description
of his assailant which, whether from memory
or unconsciously assisted by imagination, recalled
vividly to the minds of the majority of
his half-dozen listeners the form and features
of the only son of one of the best known and
most respected residents in the town.

*' He was tall and slight and well dressed,
had well-cut features and grey eyes, and a
slight dark moustache, and was altogether, as
one would say, distinguished-looking, not like
a common thief at all," said M. Dupont
slowly, in a voice just lowered to the pitch of
suggestive mystery.

There was a pause. The hearers, with
the feeling that they were being drawn into
a conspiracy fascinating but dangerous, got
gradually a little nearer to the speaker, with
eyes greedy for more of this interesting
scandal, yet loth to own that they recognised
the portrait.

'' Dark moustache, did you say ?" hazarded
one man at last, affecting a rather careless
tone. He was a draper, and the family of
the young gentleman to whom the description
pointed were customers of his.

Yes ; dark moustache and not much of
it," said M. Dupont, with importance.

Then he was young, perhaps ?" suggested
another.

"Quite young. About two-and-twenty, I
should say."

Another pause. Then a third listener,
clearing his throat, suggested : " You  you
have no idea who he was, I suppose, monsieur
?"

There was a slight rustle of relief and of
expectation among the rest, who felt that the
crisis of their interest was approaching at last.

'* Well," said M. Dupont more slowly than
ever, feeling that he must eke out the flattering
excitement which his words inspired,
there are ideas which it is best to keep to
one's self, M. Perrin."

But he had kept so very little to himself
that this sudden caution roused a feeling
of irritation, and a slight change of attitude
in each man denoted the common feeling that
they had been tricked.

'' Come now, among friends you might
surely use a little confidence, M. Dupont,"
said a big man who had not spoken yet,
laying his large hand, with sledge-hammer
force, which was meant to be persuasive, on
the thin bent shoulders of the little notary.

** Yes, and after all you are bound to state
what you know ; and certainly you would bethe
last person  in fact, we should all be the
last persons  to say a word that could be

considered disrespectful to M. Fournier "

began the most talkative of the group. And
he stopped short, suddenly conscious of what
he had done as all the rest turned upon
him : M. Dupont with indignation at having

this revelation forestalled, the others delighted
that the siihject had at last been brought
within the realms of practical discussion.

x\fter a moment's silence they all began
to talk at once in low tones and with abundance
of expressive gesticulation. M. Fournier
was a lace-manufacturer, well off, respected,
but not popular, and an opportunity
of a surreptitious peck or two at his high
reputation was generally appreciated.

' That is what comes of keeping a young
man short of money," said M. Perrin, a
florist, to whom Victor Fournier owed some
fifty or sixty francs. ' If his father won't let
him have an allowance for his little private
expenses, he must get what he wants somewhere
else."

On the contrary, I think it is the
mistaken indulgence of his parents, and
especially of his mother, which makes young
Fournier think he is a prince who can do
nothing wrong," said a gentleman, who had
tried in vain to arrange a match between his
plain daughter and the self-willed handsome
Victor.

' Who would have expected such an
escapade from the son of that thrifty old
ramrod Fournier ?" said the big man, who
could afford an independent opinion, as he
was socially beneath the manufacturer's notice
and had no business dealings with him.

*' But we are not sure that it was M.
Victor Fournier," observed the only man in
the group whose face showed a little intelligence.
'' After all, there are plenty of tall
well-dressed young men with slight moustaches
about. There is Dr. Lesage's new
assistant at the other end of the town, for
instance ; and it is not easy to see how
a gentleman so well known about here as M.
Victor could have carried on this game for
such a long time without detection. Let me
see, it was in December that these robberies
first began to be talked about, and now
we are in the last days of March. It would
require very strong proofs to convince me that
your suspicions are well founded, M. Dupont''

"I have the proof of my own eyes,"
retorted the hero of the adventure, opening
them very wide, as if to demonstrate his

remarkable ocular power, and throwing off
the last pretence of mystery on hearing a
doubt cast upon his interesting secret, ' and
I can swear that it was young M. Fournier
who robbed me of seventeen hundred and
twenty-three francs as I lay half stunned on
my back in my carriole, after I had been
attacked and thrown from my seat by some
huge creature, whether man, wolf, or fiend, I
do not pretend to say."

' Then of course you will give information
to the police, and make a statement, on
the strength of which young Fournier will be
arrested, and the charge gone into ?" said the
big man.

But the little notary's eyes grew small
again at this suggestion, and his tone became
milder.

'not so fast, monsieur; I am a father
myself, and I can feel for the young man's
parents ; besides which, the recognition of a
man's face in the dark would not be proof of
identity in a court of law."

'* Nor anywhere else," said the sceptic
curtly. *' Who has ever seen young M.

Victor in company with a mysterious familiar
which has been variously described as a wolf,
a man dressed in skins, and the devil ? Now,
if this evil genius had taken the form of
a pretty grisette  or of an elegant lady of the
grand monde with military connections, shall
we say ?  I might have seen something in
the story."

This reference to current gossip about
young Fournier's social successes in various
ranks of life raised a laugh against Dupont,
who, getting blue and angry, asked the scoffer
if he doubted his veracity.

"Not at all, not at all, mon cher Dupont.
I believe that you have been robbed of
seventeen hundred and twenty-three francs,
that you don't quite know how, and that
a bad guess in these cases is better than
none to the guesser, provided he has the
wit not to call it a certainty. If I were you,
1 would keep my suspicions to myself, but
make inquiries, and you will then find out,
sooner or later, whether you have ground
enough to bring a distinct accusation against
the person you suspect."

It was not bad advice, and coming as
it did from the mouth of a humble hanger-on
at the skirts of the law  for the sceptical
M. Guerlin was an attorney who earned his
living by gleaning those difficult and dirty
little cases which more reputable or more
wealthy practitioners refused to take up 
it had weight even with the irritated notary.
The rest were enthusiastic in their agreement,
and encouraged M. Guerlin to expose his
views further.

*' If," he continued, ' it is really this
young Victor Fournier who, with the assistance
of an accomplice, either man or beast 
for I think we may spare Old Nick the blame
of this  has kept the whole neighbourhood ina
state of terror throughout the winter, it
ought not to be difficult to track such a
series of crimes home to him. He lives
in our midst, his way of life is known,
such frequent absences as these robberies
would entail must have been noticed by
somebody. Keep your eyes open, wait and
see whether we shall hear of more thefts
of the same kind, and don't make a

noise before you are ready to strike your
blow."

M. Guerlin's dry manner was impressive,
and in the buzz of comment which followed
his speech, all the rest tried clamorously
to prove that what he said was just what
they had been about to say. They grew so
loud during this discussion, that nothing
but the fact that they all spoke at once
prevented the secret they were unanimous in
agreeing to conceal from becoming the
common property of everybody else in the
room. But as it was, only one of two
people sitting at a small table near to the
excited speakers paid much attention to them.

The room was filled with people who had
just come from Dover by boat. Most of
them were English, and all of them were
absorbed in swallowing, in as few minutes as
possible, as much food as the sea-voyage had
left them appetite for. The only two exceptions
were a lady and gentleman who had
excited much comment on the journey, the
former by her beauty, the latter by his unmistakable
devotion to her. Before sea-sickness

had damped their ardour, half a dozen British
tourists had used their exploring zeal in
finding out the name of the beauty who
had been so fortunate as to meet with their
approval, and whether she was the wife or the
daughter of the erect old gentleman who
accompanied her. And they discovered with
a little peeping and a little prying that
the lady's name was Madame de Lancry, and
that M. le General de Lancry, who travelled
with her, was her husband. And then they
made bets as to whether she was French
or English, and would have tried to decide
the point by crowding round her as she came
out of her deck-cabin on arrival at Calais to
listen to the words she might utter, had not a
rough passage by that time taken the curl out
of their amiable vivacity.

Madame de Lancry now sat with her
husband at a table near the buffet, looking
perfectly unruffled by the sea-journey, which
had not affected the delicate tints of her
complexion, nor disordered the simple travelling
dress which set off to perfection her
tall, massive, but still youthful figure. She

was young ; men would have said ' quite
young," and women " still young' but it
would have been difficult to tell her exact age.
There were tiny little thread-like lines in her
fair skin about the mouth and eyes ; she had
the manner of a woman who has been far too
long used to excite general admiration to
notice if it is given or even if it is withheld,
while the expression of her face told plainly
that she had been long enough in the world
to be heartily tired of it. She was not hungry,
and after trying vainly to take sufficient
interest in the wing of a chicken, which her
husband had carefully chosen for her, to
eat it, she gave up the attempt ; and without
noticing that he also was eating nothing,
she was attracted at first by the noise, and
afterwards by the substance of the conversation
of the men at the buffet, until her whole
attention was absorbed in trying to catch
every word they uttered.

It was not until they had moved away,
recalled to a sense of their own indiscretion
by finding the eyes of the unknown lady fixed
in fascinated interest upon them, that she

discovered, on glancing at her husband, that
he was looking very ill. For some minutes
he had sat with his elbow on the table and his
head on his hand, in an attitude of carelessness
which he had affected in order to conceal
from his wife the indisposition which she
had been too much occupied to notice.

*did you hear what those men were
saying, Gustave ?" she asked, with unusual
interest in her voice.

He raised his head and tried to answer
her ; but not even a spoilt woman could fail
to see that he was very ill, and Madame de
Lancry asked, ' What is the matter, Gustave
?" with a little natural impatience.

* Nothing, Madeline. If you will allow
me, I will go outside on to the platform and
smoke a cigarette before we start ; I suppose
the passage must have upset me a little."

He pushed his chair back and tried to rise ;
but he staggered and sat down again, for the
room seemed to be spinning round him.
Madeline rose to go to her husband's assistance,
but his valet, who had been seated with
madame's maid in a smaller room, which

opened into the large one, was at this master's
side before her. As curious eyes were being
turned from all directions upon him, his wife
addressed one of the waiters who had come upto
see what was the matter.

*have you a room to which this gentleman
can be taken ? We shall have to spend
the night here."

The Genera] was too ill to protest as he
was led out of the room and upstairs to a
rather sparely decorated apartment overlooking
the quay, with two big wooden bedsteads
placed back to back against one of the walls.
He refused to let her stay with him, saying
simply : *' My dear child, it is bad enough to
have to put up with an old man ; you shall not
be troubled with an old invalid." But when
after a little rest he felt better, he sent Joseph
to ask if madame would kindly come to him.

Madame came at once ; she was very kind,
and she meant to be very sweet as she walked
up to the bedside and took his hand in hers,
and, looking into the fine face which was still
handsome in spite of his sixty years, asked
him gently if he was better.

** Yes, my dear, I am much better, thank
you ; it is very good of you to care so much.
I know how annoying it must be to you to
have your journey interrupted in this way,
and I wanted to suggest that jou should goon
to Kome with your maid, and I will follow
in a few days. You see, you will be all right
when you are once in Kome, since the Comtesse,
your friend, is already there ; and I am
afraid that if you wait for me you may miss
the Carnival. For in my impatience to be in
Kome I can see now that I got up too soon,
and I don't think I can continue the journey
for several days."

The General had been suffering from an
old wound and rheumatism together, and his
wife felt contrite as she listened.

*' It was I who was impatient, not you,
Gustave, and you came away so soon to
please me. Why will you spoil me like this ?
If you were to be a little less indulgent, you
have no idea what a much better wife I should
be. But you still treat me as if we were in
our honeymoon, instead of your having been
a slave to my caprices for four whole years'*

VOL. I. 7

The feeling she showed brought a little
colour to his face, and he raised her hand
gratefully to his lips.

I will take your advice, then, and treat
you as hardly as I can. You shall stay here
With me until I am well enough to travel
again, and we will see whether my selfishness
really is the best plan, or whether you will be
bored to death."

Oh no, there is no fear of that," said she
quickly. *' I am on the track of a most delightful
mystery, which would keep me amused
for a whole week, I feel sure. When we
were sitting at the table downstairs, some
men were talking of a robbery which occurred
near here last week, and I heard them mention
the name of the man they suspected.
Just now I asked the chambermaid some
questions, and found out that all through the
winter most mysterious robberies have been
going on about this part of the country ; but
she said that no one knew Who committed
them. Then I asked her who M. Victor
Fournier was, without telling her that he was
the man I had heard was suspected. And

she toil me lie is the handsomest man in
Calais, a gentleman, only two or three and
twenty, the son of a lace-manufacturer, who
is said to be very rich and very mean. And,
of course, I am dying to see this supposed
Claude Dual, and I am going to call upon the
consul and ask him to get me permission to
go over M. Fournier's factory, on the chance
of seeing his son ; I shall go as early as possible
tomorrow. Isn't it quite an exciting
adventure ?"

'eyes," said her husband, who felt too
jealous of her curiosity to see the '' handsomest
man in Calais " to share her interest
in the story.

They spent the night at the hotel, and on
the following afternoon the British consul
himself accompanied Madame de Lancry to
M. Fournier's factory at St. Pierre, where, to
her great disappointment, old M. Fournier
himself shoved her over the building, having
come there, on receipt of a note from the consul,
on purpose to do honour to the beautiful
lady.

They passed from room to room, Madame

72

che Lancry scarcely able to conceal the fact
that her strong interest in revolving sheets of
twisted threads had grown singularly half-hearted
and unintelligent, until they came to a
corridor, at the end of which a young man
was standing. Feeling sure that this must
be the hero whom she was so anxious to see,
Madame de Lancry looked straight into his
face as she passed him. He was neither
short nor tall, neither very broad nor very
slight, dark-haired and dark-skinned, with a
face in which there was nothing to attract
particular attention, except the kind and
gentle expression of his brown eyes. He
glanced shyly at the handsome lady, the expression
of whose face suddenly changed from
curiosity to horror, as she looked at him.
Only the young fellow himself noticed the
look, which greatly confused and astonished
him. Madame de Lancry walked on, and
smiled mechanically, in answer to some remarks
made to her by the two middle-aged
gentlemen, but for a few minutes she did not
speak. When she had recovered her self-command,
she turned to M. Fournier.

' Is that one of your sons, monsieur''
she asked, glancing back to where the young
man stood.

"No, madame ; I have only one son,
whom I hope to have an opportunity of
presenting to you, if you will allow him that
honour."

I shall be delighted, monsieur, to know
your son. And that gentleman is "

*' One of my clerks, a young Englishman,
introduced to the firm by my English partner,
Mr. Beresford."

' I seem to know his face. May I ask
you his name ?"

'* Gerald Staunton."

Out of the mists of the past a face rose
before Madeline de Lancry, and a voice
called to her. For one instant long-forgotten
memories blinded, stunned her ; the next she
was thanking M. Fournier for his courtesy,
and inventing excuses to hurry away from
the buildings.

Madeline de L an cry returned quickly to the
Hotel de la Gare, crept softly past the door of
her husband's room, fearing lest he should
call to her ; and, shutting herself in her own
apartment, threw herself upon the bed, overwhelmed
by a sudden rush into the stagnant
calm of her present prosperous existence of
memories of the old tempestuous life of
emotions and passions, keen pleasures and
deep griefs. Gerald Staunton ! The young
clerk's face, so like that of his father whom
Louis de Breteuil had murdered, recalled the
old time in Paris so vividly that for an hour
or more, during which she lived with the old
zest and burned with the old fires, it did not
occur to her to wonder and to moralise about
the chance which had brought across her path

the sou of the man who had met with a
violent death while on the way, as he thought,
to answer her appeal to him for help.

Madeline had hardened since then; she
was not a monster of selfishness, but her own
small discomforts, and the barren monotony
of her tiresome easy life with her kind but
most dull husband, occupied so much of her
thoughts that she really had very little time
for the consideration of other people and their
troubles. For six years after the discovery
of De Breteuirs crime and of his perfidy
towards herself she had earned her own living
in all sorts of ways, honestly always, although
since Louis' betrayal her virtue was no longer
the fair fruit of modesty, but of cynical scorn.
It was typical of the lowering of her moral
tone which bitter experience had brought
about that she then, in a fit of weariness of
work, married General de Lancry, without
telling him that she had been married before,
and did not know whether her husband vvas
alive or dead, and without feeling much
concern on that point herself. However, todo
her justice, she considered herself permanently

bound to the chivalrous and devoted
gentleman whom she soon found unspeakably
tedious, and dragged him dutifully about with
her, accepting his fondness and spending his
money with indifference which trembled on
the borders of disgust.

Now, therefore, as she lay on her bed recalling
the time when pleasure could please
and conscience sting, she thought only of
comparing it with the joyless, painless days
she passed now, and did not even remember
her words to Mr. Staunton : " I should like
some day to meet your son, and to do him
some service, for the sake of your kindness to
me''

When at last she was obliged to rise and
go to see her husband, who had grown
anxious at her long absence, she had forgotten
all about the object of her visit to the factory,
and on the Generals asking her rather jealously
what she thought of *' the handsomest man in
Calais'' she replied quite calmly that she had
not seen him.

*' Then I am afraid you must have been
bored, my dearest," said her husband. '' Yet

you stayed there a long time, and there is
something in your face, a brightness, a liveliness,
which I should like to see there more
often. You must have seen something to
interest you."

'eyes, I did'* said she simply; but she
offered no further information, and his pardonable
curiosity remained unsatisfied.

On the following afternoon, before the excitement
consequent on her visit to the factory
had quite faded away, a card was brought to
her, bearing the name of M. Victor Fournier,
with a message to the effect that he had come
on the part of his father, and a request that
Madame de Lancry would see him for a few
minutes. Madeline directed that he should
be shown into her sitting-room, and she then
added a few artistic touches to her complexion,
and a neckerchief of filmy cream lace to the
rather dowdy toilette which had been good
enough for her husband. She said to herself,
as she looked mockingly in the glass which
showed her at that moment a face and figure
which would have made an ideal model for a
wicked Eoman empress, that this provincial

Don Juan would certainly not prove worthy
of these infinite pains to please. ' He will
have a round rosy face and very bright beady
black eyes, and a clumsy figure ; he will wear
a vivid satin tie with broad stripes or big
spots, and his manner will be half-impertinent,
half-bashful, and wholly insufferable." In
making this disdainful estimate she forgot
that his father, with his simple courtesy and
unaffected manners, was a gentleman ; but, in
leaving beneath her the lower middle class in
which she was born, Madeline had acquired
an appreciation of the advantages of good
birth loftier than if she had been a king's
daughter. Still, it was with a feeling of
interest and curiosity refreshing in the blank
dreariness of uncongenial married life that she
entered the sitting-room, and without delay
won all the heart the susceptible young
Frenchman had to give.

I am very glad to meet you, M. Fournier,"
said she, advancing into the room with her
hand held out, as she saw at the first glance
that her guesses about him had been, as
might have been expected, wholly wrong.

 Your father promised me this pleasure yesterday,
but I was obliged to hurry away to my
husband, who is ill, before you arrived'

'* It is very good of you, madame, to receive
me at such a time, when you must be
anxious and preoccupied. My father beo:s
that you will accept a souvenir of the honour
you have done us in visiting the factory ; I
have brought it myself; it is very small, and
verj unworthy of your acceptance, but you
will give us great pleasure if you will accept
it, all the same."

If Victor had been at all like the fancy
portrait she had drawn of him, his presentation
of a parcel which she opened and found
to contain some very beautiful machine-made
lace would have made him seem ridiculous.
But as in dress and manner he scarcely differed
in any respect from the young men
whom Fortune had favoured with the Paris
stamp, she accepted the gift with more than
her usual graciousness to strangers, told him
his visit was a most merciful act towards a
lonely traveller, and asked him to tell her
what she ought to do and what she ought to

see in Calais, in order to make the time of her
unavoidable stay there hang less heavily upon
her hands. So they sat down, and he gave
her a lively description of the pleasure she
might extract, if she went provided with a
smelling-bottle and plenty of eau-de-cologne,
from a contemplation of the picturesque beauties
of the old walls and the moat ; and he
told her that the chief pleasure of the town
vas scandal, that the old people thought it a
very wicked place and the young ones a very
dull one, and that its most remarkable peculiarity
was the fact that it should be used asa
habitation for the living instead of a tomb
for the dead.

Madeline listened and laughed, and wondered
if this were really only a light-hearted
lively young fellow, happy in the possession
of good prospects, a ready tongue, and a
handsome face, or  Claude Dual. She would
not have entertained the latter idea, if a chance
similarity in the tall slim figure and in the
type of his clear-cut thin features to Louis de
Breteuil had not recalled to her that most
frivolous-mannered of scoundrels. Victor was

some seven years younger than De Breteuil
had been when she knew him, and was not,
Moderne thought, so handsome as he ; still,
the resemblance, slight as it was, gave the
young fellow additional interest in her eyes,
and she let him talk for some time before
touching upon either of the subjects which
just now occupied most of her thoughts.

At last, however, she broke ground by
saying, '* I should have liked to make some
excursions about the neighbourhood, but I
have been alarmed by dreadful tales of demons
and wolves and robbers, who go about
at night attacking people. Or are they only
fables r

*' Not quite that, madame, but you need
not be afraid. I have never heard of one of
these attacks being made by day, and only
one of a person being attacked while driving.
If you will allow me to ride beside your
carriage, I will answer for it that no harm
shall happen either to your person or your
purse."

To judge by his maimer, anyone would
have pronounced him innocent as the day.

and Madeline perceived that, if he really was
the robber, he was far too clever to be convicted
by his own mouth. She therefore
thanked him for his offer, and turned the conversation
to another matter. In spite of all
her efforts she could not frame her next question
without a tremor of voice and a twitching
of lip, both, however, too slight to attract
notice.

' When I was at the factory yesterday, I
saw there a young Englishman of the name
of Staunton ; do you know if he is any relation
to the man of that name, a stockbroker
or something of that sort I think he was, who
was murdered near Lyons a few years ago ?
The affair caused some stir, I believe, at the
time."

"Murdered!" exclaimed Victor, in evident
astonishment. ** Oh no, madam e. Ah ! I
suppose Gerald himself told you that ?"

* No," answered Madeline quietly ; then, ina
voice which she found it hard to keep indifferent,
'' I have not spoken to him  I saw
him for the first time yesterday. The name
seemed to recall some story, that was all."

' There is a story about it," said Victor,
lowering his voice instinctively. *' And a
very mysterious one. But the strangest
thing about it is that you say just what
Gerald says  that his father was murdered."

Well, and what is the true story ?" asked
Madeline, unfolding the lace M. Fournier had
sent her, and gathering it up into folds to
employ her trembling hands.

He absconded with some thousands of
pounds' worth of securities belonging to his
clients, and nobody has ever been able to
trace either him or his accomplice."

The lace fell from her fingers to the floor,
but she did not pick it up, and by an imperative
gesture she stopped him as he was
about to do so.

YVho was that ?" she asked, in a sharp
voice.

'another English stockbroker, a younger
man, whose name, I think, was Meredith.
Poor Gerald insists upon believing that this
man murdered his father and stole the securities
; but it has been proved that on the
very day that Mr. Staunton was last seen,

near Lyons, Meredith was in London, where
he remained until he had disposed of the
securities, which must have been sent to him
by Staunton himself."

*' Or by some one who had stolen them from
Mr. Staunton' said Madeline, with such
vehemence that Victor was startled. He had
not expected such strength of passionate sympathy
in the languid listless lady of a few
minutes ago. ' Who was he last seen within
Paris for instance ?" she added hotly.

*' I  I don't know, I don't think any one
knows, madame ; but he was a cautious manit
is said, and one not at all likely to get into
questionable company''

Madeline checked her rising excitement,
and only asked simply: ** On what grounds
does his son believe him innocent ?"

"On none  at least, none worth mentioning.
He says his father was a good man 
as unconnected thieves always are  and that
he would rather have starved than have
deserted his son."

"And has the lad tried to find out anything
about his father's disappearance ?"

Oh yes. As soon as lie was eighteen 
that is six years ago now  he came over to
France, determined to clear his father's name,
as he felt sure he could do. He got as far as
Paris, and then, in a most extraordinary
manner, just as he thought he had got a
clue, he was robbed of all the money he had
saved up ; and he was at his wit's end to
know what to do, for he was ashamed to
write home to his friends for fear they should
disbelieve him and say he was no better than
his father. Then Mr. Beresford, my father's
English partner, met him, found out what
was the matter, felt sorry for him, and
offered him a berth which the poor fellow was
glad enough to accept, for he had thrown up
his chances in order to come over on this wild
hunt for evidence which, of course, he could
not find''

*' Why not ? He should have gone to
Lyons ; have visited the hotel where Mr.
Staunton stayed; have traced him step by
step to the very last place where he was
seen ; have asked, hunted, found out whether
he had received any letters "

VOL. I. 8

She stopped. Her excitement had grown
into agony as she uttered the last words.
Astonished, shocked by the intensity of the
interest she showed in a stranger's story,
Victor did not at once speak, but sat watching
the transformation which passion had effected
in her beautiful features, admiring her sensibility,
envying the object of it.

* He would have done so, madame," said
he at last, " but, as I tell you, he was robbed
of the money he had saved up to carry out
the search ; and if it had not been for the
lucky chance of his meeting with Mr. Beresford
"

Why did not this Mr. Beresford give him
or lend him the money to go on to Lyons ?
That would have been the best way of befriending
him," said Madeline, who no longer
made any pretence of hiding the strong
interest she felt in the story of Gerald
Staunton's troubles.

* He would have done so, I am sure, if he
had thought that was best, madame. He is
a most kind-hearted man, and is so fond of
Gerald that he has taken him to live with him."

' He may be kind, but he is not wise.
What sort of a man is he ?'*

*' He is the most marvellous old fossil in
the country. To see him sitting in the corner
by the stove silent, almost motionless, with
his back to the light, which hurts his eyes, he
looks like nothing but a heap of old clothes.
But though he never reads and hardly ever
talks, he manages to find out or guess all
that is going on, not only around him, but in
the world ; and he has such wonderful judgment
that people go to him for advice as they
would to a wizard. My father, who thinks
he can learn more from hearing Mr. Beresford
ask for the butter than in listening to a discourse
from a member of the Academy, says
the secret of this wonderful faculty lies in the
way Mr. Beresford, isolated from the world,
turns over a thing in his mind entirely without
prejudice or personal feeling. For he is
partly paralysed down the right side, and can
only move about with difficulty. But though
his speech is not quite clear, his mind is ; and
Gerald Staunton forms the link between him
and the outer world."

82

'rand what does lie think about the story
of young Staunton's father ?"

He believes there may be more in what
Gerald says than anybody thinks ; for he hasa
great belief in instinct, and he is never tired
of hearing Gerald relate what he calls his
reasons ' for feeling sure his father was
innocent. He is coming back from Nice,
where he has been spending the winter, in a
few days ; and on the way home he is going
to make some inquiries at Lyons ; and if he
hears anything which seems to him to promise
a clue, he will send Gerald there to follow it
out himself."

When will he come back, do you say ?
I should like to know this Mr. Beresford.
All that you have told me about him and his
protege is very strange and interesting."

"We have not yet heard the day of his
coming ; but I will let you know as soon as
we do. My father is very anxious for his
arrival ; for I must tell you that we owe the
position we hold at the very head of the lace-making
firms to Beresford' s faculty for predicting,
at the beginning of each season, what

sort of lace will be most in request during the
course of it'

*' How does he do that ?"

"By buying every book and every paper bearing
on the fashions, and having them read aloud
to him ; and by communications which he has
established with the leading Paris modistes, by
means of one or two of his travellers, who
have a sort of spy's genius for picking up just
the information they want."

' I must see him ; I would stay in Calais
a week on purpose. Remember your promise.
Monsieur Victor, to let me know when he
arrives. I thought I should die of dulness in
this place, and already I have heard more interesting
things than I have done for the past
year. You will come and see me again ? I
hope, in a day or two, that my husband will
be better, and that you will then do us the
pleasure of dining with us ; but don't harden
your heart until then against a forlorn
traveller. Come and tell me more about the
wizard. Perhaps I may be able to coax him
into letting me know the summer fashions a
whole month before anybody else : then I
shall believe in him."

She gave him her hand again, as she bade
him good-bye, with an imperial graciousness
which intoxicated Victor, who left her presence
in an ecstasy of admiration of this
lovely woman, whose manners, conveying
exactly whatever impression she intended,
seemed to him perfect after the less artistic
affectations of the women among whom his
daily lot was cast. Returning to the factory,
where he found Gerald Staunton busy with
correspondence, ne snatched pen and letters
away, and, throwing himself on to a chair in
front of the young Englishman, began to discourse
upon the latter's wonderful luck.

'' What do you mean ? What are you
driving at ?" said Gerald rather irritably.
He was not ill-tempered, but he wanted to
finish his day's work and get away.

*why, you are a hero, my boy, a hero.
Madame de Lancry, the loveliest woman that
ever made little women look insignificant and
big ones clumsy, has condescended to be
interested about you, to want to know who
you are, and "

' That'll do," said Gerald shortly. He

was sensitive about any interest he might
excite, knowing well that it would be roused,
not about himself, but about his unhappy-story.
For he was a modest fellow enough,
and the one capacity he had shown, up to his
present age of four-and-twenty, of getting
through whatever work was given him to do
with plodding steadiness, and no better or
worse than other people, was not brilliant
enough to have exposed him to the dangers
of extravagant praise.

'' Ungrateful stolid Englishman that you
are ! Why, I would give all my best engagements
for next month to inspire in her one-tenth
of the warmth she expressed about you.
She is a queen, an empress, a goddess."

Gerald had recovered his pen and his
letter, and was scratching steadily away
again, as if all the beauties that ever dazzled
Pagan or Christian were less interesting in
his eyes than a bill of lading.

'did you see her?" asked Victor, laying
his hand over the letter.

** Yes  saw her yesterday."

* And you don't worship her ?"

'' No."

** You are jealous because she let me stays
long this afternoon."

** What !" said Gerald, raising his eyes to
the other's face with a straightforward look of
contempt. ** Jealous because a woman, ten
years older than you or I, is good enough to
amuse herself with you, and to let you fill up
her spare time when she is tired of being
with her old husband ! Well, you can think
so if you like. But just ask yourself what I
should find to say to her or she to me, and
whether I should like to be shut up in a hot
scented room trying to be amusing  which I
never was yet  while I, and she too, for that
matter, wished I were walking over the sand-hills
of * Les Bouleaux,' three miles away.
And if you can worship a woman like that,
all powder and smiling manners that one
can't trust, I think it's a bad look-out for
Miss Beresford."

*'I can worship them both and half a
dozen more at the same time, as far as that
goes," said Victor airily. '* You Englishmen,
and especially an Englishman like you,

Gerald, consider love as a duty of the good
citizen, and as soon as you are twenty-five
you begin to look about for a lady-love, just
as you would for a pair of boots  only you
are satisfied more easily. And occasionally
you find you have made a mistake  her eyes
are not the right colour, or she can't knit 
and you change her for another, just as you
would a pair of boots. And you go to see her
every Sundays for five years, and then you
marry her ; and you have had your romance
and are satisfied. And you might as well bea
sheep for all you know of love''

'* That's all nonsense," said Gerald angrily,
and at any rate we choose our own boots,
and don't submit to have them chosen for us
by our papas and mammas, like little children.
And if we don't want so many pairs as you
Frenchmen, perhaps we like them a better
quality."

As in all their little skirmishes, Gerald's
heavier and more earnest manner made him
seem rude, while Victor's most irritating
speeches were uttered with a buoyant good-humour
which made them less uncivil but

more telling. And then, too, he would not
be annoyed, which gave him an enormous
advantage over his antagonist.

sewell, you cannot sneer at me on that
point now ; since the goddess I adore and the
girl I am to marry are both fellow countrywomen
of yours."

** Madame de Lancry has married a
Frenchman and is half a Frenchwoman herself
by this time. And I can tell you that
Miss Beresford must be a very poor specimen
of an English girl to allow herself to be
dragged over here to be married to a man she
has never seen. No English father but Mr.
Beresford, who is unlike anybody else and
has his own way with everyone, would have
dared to suggest such a thing to his daughter."

Don't let us talk about her. I dream of
the long teeth and huge feet she will be sure
to have. If Beresford were not my father's
religion, I think he would be a little less ready
to give me for a wife a girl whom her own
father has not seen for years, and whose
mother had knocked about the world with her
for so long without her husband. Does Mr.

Beresford ever mention what was the cause
of his separation from his wife ?"

* No ; I never heard about her till last year
the news came to ' Les Bouleaux ' that she
was dead, and he got me to send off a telegram
to his daughter to ask what she proposed
to do. If I were you, I wouldn't look
at a girl who has been brought up like that
without knowing more about her'

Well, of course it is still open to me to
decline to ratify the bargain, but that is a resource
to be used only if Miss Beresford should
prove to be forty and humpbacked. Old Beresford
is rich and economical. If marriage fills
one's purse and discharges one's filial obligations,
it is unreasonable to expect more from it.
Now come down to the quay with me," as
Gerald fastened up his last letter. ' It has
left off raining ; I want to feel the sea-wind
in my face for ten minutes."

** You want to be near the Hotel de la
Gare," said Gerald bluntly.

However, he put on his hat and overcoat,
and the two walked down to the pier together.

It was a stormy afternoon ; the sun struggled
out now and then from behind dark banks of
cloud, but shone, for the most part, with a
weak and watery light through a slanting veil
of rain. The sea was a dark gray-green,
with foaming white lines and peaks ; and the
big waves that rolled up to the harbour
mouth, and broke against the pier-head with
a roar as they dashed up and a ripple as
they fell back, tossed a blinding spray high
into the air and made the planks of the pier
dark and slippery.

The mail steamer from Dover was in sight,
and Victor and Gerald waited to see it come
in, with a malicious anticipation of amusement
at the spectacle of a bevy of their
fellow-creatures staggering, limp, green-faced,

and miserable, up the gangway and along the
wet planks of the pier towards the station.
So they joined the small group of fellow-enthusiasts
whom no stress of weather could
keep from their favourite excitement of
passenger-baiting ; as the victims landed
Victor enjoyed and moralised, while the softer-hearted
Gerald was inclined to feel sorry,
especially for one pale little girl, shivering in
her ulster, who seemed to be alone, and who,
with her arms laden with rug, umbrella, and
travelling-bag, was mercilessly sandwiches
and shunted and elbowed out of everybody's
way, and who, when at last she had been
driven up the gangway at the point of a
man's gun-case, slipped on the wet planks of
the pier, and was only saved from falling by
Gerald himself, who sprang forward just intime,
and then picked up the rug which had
dropped from her hands. The pale little
lady seemed at first inclined to resent his
timely aid, and withdrawing her arm very
quickly from the hand with which he had
saved her, she said, *' Merci, monsieur I" in
the haughtiest manner : but a second glance

at him as he humbly restored her rug seemed
to convince her that he was not the bold badman
that every introduced stranger is, according
to the creed of a carefully brought
girl, bound to be ; and her little pale
cheeks flushed as she ventured upon a most
diffident and well-controlled smile into his
kind face, and then struggled bravely on
again.

'' How those English girls clothe themselves
!' remarked Victor, glancing in contemptuous
amusement at the little uttered
figure.

And how much better it looks to be
dressed in a flapping cloak of impossible
tartan, with a hat down over the nose in
front and turned up to show a skinny dark
neck behind, with a blue gauze veil fastened
down like a skin over the face  like half of
the Frenchwomen !" said Gerald, with unnecessary
excitement.

Victor showed no inclination to quarrel
in defence of his countrywomen, so the
two young men strolled off the pier in the
wake of the travellers, and walked along the

quay at the suggestion of the enamoured
one, under the windows of the Hotel de la
Gare.

From behind the muslin blinds of her
room, Madame de Lancry saw them, and
watched, not the man at whose suggestion
they had come that way, but the EngHsli-
man, the sight of whom recalled each moment
more clearly the man who had come to his
death in his attempt to help her in her
supposed need. Conscience was waking in
the woman, and, combined with a craving for
strong excitement of some sort to give zest
to her insipid life, it became a stimulus to
prompt action on behalf of the son of the
man who had befriended her. What should
she do ? By a word she could put Gerald
Staunton on the track of his father's murderer,
by simply giving the lad the address of the
magnificent house in the Avenue Friesland
where Louis de Breteuil passed every winter
season, each year surpassing the preceding
one in the splendour of his entertainments
and the extravagant luxury of his mode of
life. But she was experienced enough to bea

fair judge of a character from a face, and
she guessed that either in direct attack, or in
the tortuous paths of the private detective,
such weapons as the Englishman of twenty-four
would use would prove blunt and pointless
against a ripe and unprincipled strategist
like Louis.

There was only one person who had both
the power and the will to meet and cope with
Louis; and that was the woman who had
learnt the bitterest secrets of life from him.
Madeline felt a new life, fed with strong
impulses of generosity, of daring, and of
revenge, glow in her veins as she took the
resolution to avenge herself and lift the
cloud from Gerald Staunton's life at the same
time.

And when she read the newspapers to her
husband that evening, with even more than
her usual reckless disregard of those trifling
rules of elocution and punctuation necessary
to make the news of the day intelligible, the
uncomplaining General little guessed that his
wife was in the throes of an awakened sense
of duty.

The storm-clouds had broken, and the sun
was setting in an almost clear sky, when
Victor Fournier and Gerald Staunton left the
quay and the fascinating neighbourhood of
the Hotel de la Gare, and, passing again
across the old drawbridge and through the
dark, narrow streets of Calais, reached the
market-place, where their ways diverged.
Victor had to cross the Place to the left to
reach his father's house, while the gig which
took Gerald daily to and from the town was
waiting for him at the factory.

*' Come home and dine with us to-night,"
said Victor, as they stopped at the corner of
the Place. 'you know my mother will be
delighted to see you ; and as for Louise, she
declares you are the most charming fellow in
Calais, and is always commiserating you for
the lonely life you lead at ' Les Bouleaux.' "

*' Thanks awfully, but I can't come ; for,
now all the country people's heads are turned
by fright about the robberies, if I were late I
should find the house locked up, and be taken
for a thief when I got back."

VOL. I. 9

"Mon Dieu ! what a life you must have
led there this winter all by yourself!"

It has been rather dull. When I get
too tired of reading to read any more, I
generally go into the kitchen and sit with
the servants. I say I do it to prevent their
feeling nervous ; but it isn't all unselfish
kindness when the wind begins to blow and
those beastly upstairs shutters to bang."

'' Why do you put up with it ? Old
Beresford's a pig to expect it of you. Why
don't you tell him that, if he expects you to
put up with his dull presence and still duller
absence, he must make you a decent allowance,
and let you find yourself a wife ?"

Victor had slipped his arm within that of
his companion, and was strolling with him
across the market-place in the direction of
his own home. Gerald laughed at his last
suggestion.

*' Oh yes, I can imagine myself taking the
high hand with Mr. Beresford, asking for an
allowance, as if I were indispensable to him,
instead of being only a poor clerk whom he
engaged out of compassion, with only just

brains enough to add up a column of figures
and write a business letter after clear instructions.
I should like to see myself asking
Mr. Beresford to be good enough to oblige
me with money to support a wife ! Besides,
I don't want one*

' Oh yes, you do ; you're just cut out to
make a good husband for a nice girl' said
Victor, in a tone which flesh and blood  of
four-and-twenty  could not stand.

' I suppose you mean I'm too dull and
stupid to enjoy life," Gerald retorted, with a
not very successful attempt to look wild and
wicked.

Not at all, my dear boy. We all know
what brilliant success you have with the
women, and how Monnier's daughter "

'' Shut up !" said Gerald shortly.

Babette, the sixteen-year-old daughter of
Monnier, Air. Beresford's head gamekeeper,
was a rustic coquette whom the tongues of
her less handsome female acquaintances did
not spare.

*' Now don't turn savage, dear boy," continued
Victor easily. ** I'm not chaffing,

92

upon my honour, when I tell you to beware
of that girl. For if ever there was a pretty
little vampire, born with a natural taste for
devouring her species, it is she. She would
make a fool of any man, young as she is."

' With the exception, of course, of the all-conquering
M. Victor Fournier''

** I ! I wouldn't go near the little she-devil
for all  well, all the plunder Monnier himself
has collected since he has been in old Beresford's
service."

*' What do you mean ?"

<' Why, that thieving runs in the family.
Old Monnier  at least, he isn't very old, but,
anyhow, I mean Babette's father  was as
poor as a church mouse when he first became
Beresford's gamekeeper, as I happen to know.
And now  as I also happen to know  after
being gamekeeper five years, he has a couple
of cottages and a wine-shop of his own. He
has feathered his nest, and his daughter means
to feather hers  if she can. But if you take
my advice, you won't help her."

'* Very good advice, no doubt. But it
would sound a little more disinterested if I

had not happened to pass by Monnier's
cottage yesterday week, and to see you and
Babette standing by the fire in very amicable
converse indeed."

Victor stopped, and making Gerald stop
too, stared down into his face for some
seconds without speaking. Then he asked
simply, 'are you serious?"

'' Perfectly."

*' Well, then, you have made some strange
mistake. I haven't been in the direction of
Les Bouleaux ' for more than a month.
You don't believe me ?"

'how can I, when I saw you with my
own eyes ?"

*eon what day do you say it was you saw
me, and at what time ?"

*rit was on Wednesday, the 21st; I
remember the date because it was the night
on which Dupont was robbed. I got back
home a little earlier than usual, because your
father came in and told me I might be off if I
liked, as there was nothing left for me to do
in the office, and he wanted me to write to
Mr. Beresford. It was soon after five when

I got to the gate at the end of the poplar
avenue ; and I got down, tied up the horse,
and went on to Monnier's to see if he had
finished cleaning my gun' continued Gerald,
flushing, 'sand as the door was fastened I
just looked in at the window, and saw you
and Babette standing together by the fireplace."


' Was the fire bright ?"

*No-o, not very, I think; but it was
bright enough to see you by."

"If it had been as bright as the infernal
regions on a fete-night, you could not have
done that," said Victor composedly, *' for I
was not there."

** Then M. Victor Fournier's ghost was."

** I was playing ecarte with Paul Gilbert in
his brother's rooms from five o'clock that day
until half-past six, when I went to dine with
them at Dessin's. If it was my ghost you
saw, it did you good service in warning you
off such dangerous ground; but I confess I
think it more probable that in the half-light
you mistook some other fool for your faithful
counsellor."

He saw plainly by the stubborn way in
which Gerald's mouth was closed that the
latter did not believe him, but he seemed not
to think the matter of sufficient consequence
to press the point, and continued, in a tone
which he tried to make less patronizing :

'you need not think I look down upon
you for being such a good fellow as you are,
Gerald. On the contrary, I give you my
word that if only old Beresford would do his
duty, and behave handsomely to you  which
is the least he can do after all the fuss he has
made about your history  forgive me, I don't
mean to pain you  and the use he makes of
you as a kind of postman, there is no man
whom I would rather see the husband of my
own sister than you, Gerald."

'' Thank you," said the other, with no
appearance of being overwhelmed with joy at
the suggestion.

"Now don't speak like that," said Victor
genially. "Don't you see that I could not
pay you a greater compliment than by giving
you this hint ? A man's sister is all that he
holds most sacred in womanhood, and it is,

besides, an open secret in the family that
Louise takes your story to heart more as if
you were a hero out of a book than a living
man. It is a fact, I assure you."

*rit is very good of her," said Gerald
rather stiffly, though it was impossible for
him to treat such a statement of a lady's
kindness discourteously.

*' Now do come and dine with us ; it is
only at the end of the street'* said Victor
persuasively, as his companion stopped.

'* No, thank you, I am late as it is. Give
my kind regards to Madame and Mdlle.
Fournier."

And wrenching his arm rather roughly out
of that of his friend, Gerald escaped and made
his way as fast as he could to where the gig
was waiting for him. The old horse which
drew this respectable-looking, but by no
means fashionably built, vehicle was the
fattest in the department ; and although
Gerald had taken a mean advantage of Mr.
Beresford's absence to urge the brute daily to
a sharper trot than its merciful master would
have allowed, still the disrespectful questions

which the gamins would address to him from
a safe distance on the roadside as to whether
he was going to market instead of his grandmother,
and whether his horse was to run for
the Grand Prix, were among the most distasteful
experiences of his daily life.

He now eyed the too well-rounded proportions
of the obnoxious animal with more
dissatisfaction than usual, being in an ill-humour,
mounted into the gig, and drove off
with a very strong feeling that the world was
not using him well. It was a dull drive to
*' Les Bouleaux," along a flat road through a
bare landscape ; and the east wind blew
straight into his face the whole way. A
consideration of his position in life, which
Victor's well-meant but rather tactless discourse
had forced upon him, was dispiriting
almost beyond endurance. He had no friends
who cared much about him ; for Mr. Beresford,
with all his kindness, seemed to live ina
philosophical abstraction which put him
outside the influence of mutual human sympathies,
and made him regard Gerald rather
as the subject of an interesting psychological

experiment than as a solitary and steadily
working young man, who took life as it came,
and tried very hard to be cheerful over it.
He had no prospects, for his labour was not
particularly valuable, and he had arrived,
either by instinct or reflection, at the conclusion
that Mr. Beresford, taking nothing
but a philosopher's interest in him and his
'' case," had no intention of raising him
above his present position of poorly-paid
clerk at the factory, caretaker at ' Les
Bouleaux,'' and postman between those two
places.

As for marrying Louise Fournier, as her
brother had suggested, that was quite out of
the question, and Gerald did not regret it.
Being unused now to ladies' society, he was
shy and constrained in the presence of
Madame Fournier and her daughter, and
Louise's spontaneous gaiety had a stupefying
effect upon him. She was a bright round-faced
girl of seventeen, whom he had never
once seen with her cheeks dimpled by a
smile. She had rosy lips and sparkling eyes
and the beauty of extreme youth, and was a

very good-humoured and pleasant creature,
with a tendency to romance in her temperament
which did not find expression in a
pensive brow and love-worn cheek, but in a
very simple and sincere interest in unlucky
Gerald Staunton, and a wish, which she had
openly confided to her mother and brother,
that he might be discovered to be a long-lost
heir to something or other, and might
then ask her to console him for his past
misfortunes. But this seemed unlikely, and
in the meantime Gerald's thoughts were more
occupied with the perfidious Babette, with
whom he had been carrying on an innocent
but interesting flirtation, when his unlucky
peep through the window of her father's
cottage eight days ago had shown him the
rustic beauty with an arm round her waist
which he felt still convinced was Victor's,
and he had experienced a sudden sharp pang
which he could not mistake for any other
feeling than jealousy. Since then he had
avoided Monnier's cottage, and nothing would
have induced him to turn his steps in that
direction to-day if he had not remembered,

just as this horse stopped of this own accord
at the gate of the long poplar avenue leading
up to *' Les Bouleaux," that the gamekeeper
had not yet returned his gun ; and though
he was not in present need of it, still it
would no doubt be safer in his own room
than lying about in Monnier's cottage. The
white gate of the avenue stood open, as was
frequently the case, there being no lodge to
guard the way of entrance to the unpretending
little country house which the peasants nevertheless
called the '* chateau;" but as the
horse had stopped as if accustomed to a halt
here, Gerald after a few moments' debate
with himself jumped down, fastened the reins
to one of the gate-posts, and sauntered down
the road in an unconcerned manner towards
the gamekeeper's cottage, which stood in a
garden still bare, but which already showed
signs of the care that would make it pretty
and productive by-and-by. He whistled to
himself as he walked up the garden-path, and
tapped at the door without peeping in at the
window this time. It was opened at once by
Babette herself, whom he greeted in an offhand

manner, and, after one supercilious
glance, asked whether her father was afc
home, while his eyes wandered all round the
cottage and all over the landscape, and the
restlessness of his manner betrayed at once
to the untutored coquette that he had come
to see her and her alone, though he would
not have had it known for worlds.

Gerald Staunton's assumption of easy indifference
to Babette, as she opened the
cottage door to him, was no match for the
girls more genuine coolness.

** Come in, monsieur," said she very carelessly
: and Gerald, not having expected her
to take this tone with him, was compelled to
look at her more attentively to try to make
out the reason of the change.

For even when capricious Babette was on
with the new love, she did not, as a rule,
show any desire to be off with the old, being
a young lady who felt herself quite capable of
driving a team of admirers with amusement
to them and profit to herself. It would have
required a very shrewd judge of character to
gauge the depth of the girls lover-leading

capacity ou a first introduction to her. A
great shy blue-eyed creature, with thick loose
lips, dazzling teeth, and fair complexion
browned and reddened by the sun, her face
set off by a narrow frame of fair hair brushed
back under her clean white cap, she had a
habit of blushing which a stranger would have
mistaken for a sign of modesty, and a perfectly
natural way of casting down her blue eyes on
receipt of a kiss or a compliment, which would
have won a poet's heart, and inspired him
with the new idea of setting forth in verse the
superiority of the unsophisticated village lass
over the brazen tennis-playing girls of his own
rank of life. She wore a plain short gown of
coarse blue stuff, and an apron of lighter blue
cotton, and she clanked about the roughly
tiled floor in a huge pair of wooden shoes,
the sound of which Gerald loved ; in her
large red hands she held a half-finished grey
stocking on wooden knitting-pins, with one of
which she indolently pointed to a chair.

*' Sit down, monsieur; my father will be in
immediately'' said she, without so much as a
look at the young gentleman, and in a tone so

much haughtier and more indifferent than the
one he had assumed, that Gerald instantly
dropped into his usual manner, vanquished
on the ground he had chosen.

'* How's the cow, Palette ?'* he asked
simply.

She's better; I gave her a bran-mash the
night before last," answered the girl, still
"with dignity.

* And the chicken; did you find the one
that strayed away ?"

'eyes, monsieur; it had got into the dry
ditch behind the potatoes," she answered
rather impatiently.

A pause. He could not think of anything
else to ask about for a few moments ; then he
asked, with sudden fire, '' Has old Elise given
you the fifteen sous she owed you for the
turnips ?"

'' Oh yes," said Babette, twisting one
shoulder up to her ear petulantly. 'rit is
all settled. All those common things don't
interest me," she added, tossing her head
back as she leant, with crossed feet, against
the wall by the wide hearth.

Gerald stared at her in astonishment.
Hitherto thrift and coquetry had gone hand
in hand in the girl's nature, and the prospects
of the beetroot crop had excited her as much
as the promise of a bead necklace. He was
utterly grieved by this new phase, having
always admired and encouraged the simple
frankness with which she used to tell him,
with her mouth full of the apples and gingerbread
of his providing, which she used to
devour in unromantic quantities, i\\l the details
and petty economies of the sordid cottage-life.
This must be one of the bad results of Victor's
influence, he thought, angrily and sorrowfully.
Why couldn't the fellow amuse himself in the
town, without coming out here to spoil the
sweet rustic innocence of pretty Babette '?
For Gerald believed the girl to be as honest-hearted
as himself; and he now debated what
terms he had better use to put the trusting
creature on her guard.

'' You used not to talk like that, Babette,"
he began at last cautiously. 'last time I
was here, when you showed me that big ham
you were so proud of, and we looked over the

VOL. I. JO

sunflower-seeds, and I made you those new
clothes-pegs, you didn't talk of * common
things ' then."

Babette shrugged her shoulders, tossed her
head again, and unconsciously thrust into
greater prominence her great wooden-shod
feet as she sHd into a lounging attitude of
haughty indolence, still working away busily
at her stocking, however.

**A11 that was childish. One can't be
always a child. Don't talk to me about
clothes-pegs, I hate such things."

* Who has taught you to hate them ?"

"Nobody'' answered the girl hastily and
rather peevishly. 'you think I am just a
common girl and can only talk about cows
and pigs. It isn't true ; I like to talk about
other things."

'' What things do you like to talk about
now, Babette ?"

Oh, about Paris and beautiful houses, and
bonbons that melt in your mouth  like the
ladies of the head monde talk about. You see,
I'm not so ignorant as you think."

And who talks to you about those

things ?" The girl did not answer. ' I
know; it is M. Victor Fournier." She
raised her head quickly. *' But you should
not listen to him. Good girls shouldn't
listen to those things ; gentlemen who talk
like that only laugh at you. If M. Victor
said that to you "

*' M. Victor has said nothing to me ; I
scarcely know M. Victor. And who is he
that he should laugh at me ? He is only a
grand seigneur de province ' after all. M.
Victor, indeed !'

Gerald almost gasped. '' Grand seigneur
de province !" How on earth had she got
hold of that phrase, over the pronunciation
of which she was indeed a little uncertain,
though its meaning as a term of contempt
was evidently pretty clear to her ? After a
short silence he got up, and kneeling on one
of the wooden chairs, leant over it while he
tilted himself backwards and forwards, and
addressed her with a red face and all the
impressiveness of which he was master.

** Abetted'' he said, " you have met somebody
who would like to do you a great injury,

102

making you dissatisfied with your simple
harmless country life, and with your own
goodness and truth and honesty. But you
mustn't listen to what he says, you mustn't
indeed. If you do, you'll be awfully sorry
for it, and worse than sorry. You don't
know what gentlemen are : I do ; and I tell
you the less you have to do with them the
better."

*Why, you are a gentleman yourself," retorted
she saucily, " though you're not so
fine a one as "

She stopped short; and Gerald continued :

'look here, Babette, tell me who it is.
You can trust me, you know."

She shook her head decidedly

'well, if you won't, I shall tell your
father or your grandmother."

Very well, you can tell them what you
like," she said, laughing defiantly, while a
dangerous light began to glitter in her eyes.

'' I shall tell him," Gerald went on
earnestly, ' ' that you are in danger of being
talked over by some scoundrel, who, just
because he wears a cloth coat instead of a

blouse, you tliiuk is a model of all that is
perfect and manly. '*

The girl continued to laugh, with her eyes
fixed on some object behind him. He turned
and saw the very person to whom he proposed
to appeal  the gamekeeper Monnier,
who had entered from an inner room in the
course of their conversation, and who, it
struck Gerald as he looked at him, was not
the person to appeal to on any point more
delicate than the snaring of a rabbit or the
punishment of a poacher. Monnier was a
middle-aged man, made prematurely old by
open-air work, whose stooping shoulders,
ferret eyes, and sinister expression made him
look more like a breaker of the laws than a
supporter of them.

'' At your service, monsieur," said he, with
grim respectfulness, and with a glance at his
daughter which showed that there was a
better understanding between them than
Gerald would have liked to admit.

And the young man, noting the look of
saucy defiance on the girl's face, and that of
perfect comprehension of the situation on the

father's, saw that there was nothing left for
him but to ask for his gun and to take his
departure. When, however, he had said
good-bye to Babette, and was at the door,
Monnier followed him, and said, in a voice
which was intended to be reassuring, though
it had not that effect :

Do not disturb yourself about my
daughter, monsieur; I look after her well."

But Gerald returned to the gate, where he
had left the gig, in much anxiety concerning
his humble friend. He drove up the long
avenue, and through the gate at the other
end, into the paved space before the house,
where he got down and knocked at the door,
still in a state of deep abstraction.

Mr. Beresford's home was not an imposing
residence. It was a long whitewashed house
with a red-tiled roof, with two or three
smaller buildings of the same unpretending
pattern added on at the further end ; these
contained the servants' offices, and close to
them came the stable, and a small cottage
where the coachman lived. It was hard to
decide which was the front of the house, for

the principal entrance was the unpretending
door upon the courtyard at which Gerald now
stood, while the other and prettier side of
the house had no door at all, entrance into
the garden being by French-windows through
the salons and salle a-manger, straight on to
the sandy path which skirted the little lawn.

The door was opened by a rough but good-natured
looking servant in short stuff gown,
white cap tied under the chin, and wooden
shoes. She exclaimed on seeing him :

Oh, monsieur, I am glad you have come.
Mdlle. Beresford has arrived, and she is
waiting in the salon while we get ready something
to eat for her. And she looks so tired !
Oh, so tired, monsieur ! It is pitiful !"

Gerald's face fell. Unaccustomed to
strangers, shy with ladies, the rather awkward
position in which he found himself had
untold horrors for him. As he crept guiltily
upstairs, and changed his coat and put on
a new tie in honour of the dreaded Miss
Beresford, a horrible longing seized him to
have the horse put again into the gig, and
to sneak back to Calais and beg Madame

Fournier to have mercy on his situation and
come back to play hostess for him. However,
he conquered this cowardly impulse,
slunk downstairs, and nervously entered the
salon, where he was told he should find the
lady. At first he saw nothing but the back
of Mr. Beresford's big armchair, drawn up
close to the stove. Advancing slowly step
by step, he found that it was occupied by a
little feminine figure in a black dress, fast
asleep, with her head hanging down on one
side, her hands lying listlessly on her lap,
and her feet  such little feet !  stuck up
against the close stove. This attitude was
reassuringly undignified, but Gerald could
almost have given a shout of pleasurable
relief on recognising in the pale tired face
that of the little creature whom he had saved
from falling on the pier that afternoon.

She did not wake up as he approached, so
he sat down on a chair, with his elbows on his
knees and his face in his hands, watching her,
and wondering what she would say and what
she would do when she opened her eyes. .

Gerald made a shy but critical examination

of Miss Beresford as she slept on by the stove,
and became every moment more certain that
he should like her. She was so small, so
pale, had such slender little hands, and such a
weary little face, that the very sight of her
roused in him a wish to do something for her,
if it were only to lift up her head, as it hung
down uncomfortably over the arm of her chair.
She was as unlike as possible the tall, marcus
handsomely dressed person he
had pictured Mr. Beresford's daughter to be ;
and he was already endowing her with every
sweet and mawkish attribute which helps to
form a very young man's ideal of womanhood,
when she raised her head with a start and a
sigh, while Gerald drew himself up on his
chair and blushed deeply  much more deeply
than she did as she suddenly became aware of
his presence. She drew down her feet, sat
up in the chair, and held out her hand with
great demureness. He got up, shot stiffly
across the room to her, shook hands as if it
was a painful and distasteful operation, and
retreated at once with the appearance of being
glad to be let off so easily.

'* I am afraid I have come upon you unexpectedly,
monsieur," she said, rather sleepily,

in French. 'but my father " She

stopped, and, after looking at him for a few
moments attentively, asked, 'rare you English
?"

Yes, quite."

Ah, I thought you looked English ; I
seem to have seen you somewhere."

*' To-day  on the pier."

I remember now. You saved me from
falling down, and picked up my rug ; it was
very kind of you. Did you know who I

*' No ; I hadn't the least idea you were
coming, Miss Beresford, or I should certainly
have met you. And Victor Fournier too, who
was with me "

She started into full wakefulness. " Was

that M. Fournier, that handsome " She

stopped short, blushing, but evidently much
pleased by the discovery.

These words reminded Gerald of the strange
circumstances of her coming, and chilled him
a little. They both remained silent for sometime,

he rather disgusted, and she thoughtful.
Then, glancing at him, she seemed to understand
the expression of his face, and when
she spoke again there was a timid and rather
pleading tone in her voice.

I thought I should find my father here ;
he told me by letter that I was to be prepared
to come over at the end of March. I have
not heard from him for two months now, and
as some friends of mine were going as far as
Dover, and I don't like travelling by myself,
I took the opportunity of coming with them
part of the way."

 Mr. Beresford will certainly be here in a
few days now, mademoiselle ; in the meantime
I will drive you over, if you like,
tomorrow, to Madame Fournier's "

*'0h no; I shouldn't like to go there  at
least, not at once," said she, blushing piteously


Very well, mademoiselle. At any rate,
I w411 go to Calais to-night, and tell them of
your arrival."

*' But why need you be in such a hurry ?
I don't want you to have a cold drive

to-night on my account. Why can't you
wait "

She stopped short, and looked down uncomfortably.
Delphine, the servant who
opened the door to her, had prepared her for
the coming of M. Gerald, in whom she,
without any particular reason, had expected
to find some staid secretary or dependent of
the same generation as her father. The young
fellow was evidently in the throes of a difficulty
about etiquette which she considered
more lightly, though she did not at first Hke
to say so.

*' They will be offended if they are not
immediately informed of your coming. Miss
Beresford," insisted Gerald, anxious to escape
the awkward duties of host. And as at that
moment Delphine opened the door of the
salle-d-mcmger and announced that dinner was
ready, he ordered the gig to be brought round
again in an hour.

Then they went in to dinner, and for the
first few minutes Gerald was utterly borne
down by a sense of his responsibilities as host,
and gave all his attention to helping Miss

Beresford to soup, and to compiling elaborate
little commonplaces about the discomforts of
travelling, to which she paid very little heed,
being ravenously hungry, and apparently not
inclined for conversation. So that by the
time the fish was on the table they had both
dropped into silence. But Miss Beresford
was beginning to look pinker and happier, and
as the next course appeared she glanced at
her companion and broke into a pleasant little
laugh.

What a curious ending to the day this
is !" she exclaimed, in a more natural tone
than he had yet heard from her. ' Not a bit
like what I expected."

'' Oh, of course you expected to find Mr.
Beresford here."

Yes." Then she sat back happily in
her chair, and added simply, ** I'm so glad he
isn't !"

Gerald, whose ideas concerning the relations
between children and their parents ran in
conventional lines, echoed feebly, *' Glad he
isn't!"

"Yes, very glad," she repeated calmly

then, with a sigh : '' I wish he wouldn't come
back from Nice at all ! I know I shan't like
him."

Gerald was beginning to enjoy the unconventional
tete-astute, when these utterances,
which he scarcely knew whether to take
seriously, disconcerted him.

It is long since you have seen him, then,
Miss Beresford ?"

*' I don't remember him at all ; I only
know what poor mamma used to tell me
about him. I shan't even recognise him
from the old portrait I have of him when he
was young ; for he told me in one of his
letters that he is partly paralysed."

"What makes you think you won't like
him. Miss Beresford ?"
 " Oh, everything. The way he treated
poor mamma, for one thing  deserting her
and leaving her for her own friends to support,
and never caring what became of her or
of me either, while we wandered about for
years and years together, like a pair of
tramps, living wherever it was cheap, dressing
as best we could, never knowing what it was

to be out of debt, or to have any pleasure that
wasn't thrown to us out of charity. If you
had gone through all that, you wouldn't feel
very grateful to the person to whom you
owed such a life."

*' No, I don't think I should," said Gerald
heartily. " But it will be all right when you
see him. I know Mr. Beresford, and I should
think he must have been a very difficult sort
of man for a wife to get on with ; but he is
too just to bear any ill-will towards you for
her sake, I'm sure."

** Why should he ? It is I who bear him
ill-will for her sake. And she bore ill-will tome
for his sake ; so you see I have some
cause for knowing that I shall hate him."

And, to Gerald's horror, her lips suddenly
parted over a set of beautiful white teeth, and
her little face wrinkled up into an expression
of impish malevolence.

*you look quite frightened," said she,
laughing, as her features relaxed into their
usual form. " Did you think at first that I
was a nice girl ? People often do at first."

** I am sure you are," said he politely.

'' Of course people can't be as nice when they
are low-spirited and miserable as they are
when  when they feel better."

'but I never do feel better; I've been
soured. I've never been happy and I've
never been young, and it's too late for me to
begin to learn how."

Too late ! Oh no, it isn't. It seems
quite funny to hear you talk like that. When
you are a little older you will know better.
Let me give you some more muss a la neige,'

"If you please. How very nice it is!"
said Miss Beresford.

"Yes; Marie makes it beautifully. If
you like sweets, I'll take you to the best
pastry cook's in Calais in a day or two, where
they've got some awfully nice things, and
such mar digs /"

"I don't care much for marengo ; 1 like
tarts with cream in them, and chocolate."

"Well, you shall taste them all," said Gerald,
thankful to have found a subject which she
did not treat lugubriously. " There are some
chocolate in the salon, and I told Delphine
to light a fire there. Shall we take some

fruit with us, and go in there ? It is much
cosier than the room where I met you'

Miss Beresford agreed, and they passed
through the bare-looking salon, with polished
floor and close stove, to a smaller room at the
end of the suite, where a bright warm-looking
carpet and an open fire-place seemed more
English and home-like. Gerald pulled a low
armchair to the fire for the lady, and, seating
himself on a footstool at her feet, began to
prepare fruit for her.

VOL. I. 11

During the five and a half years of his
residence at ** Les Bouleaux" Gerald Staunton
had enjoyed so few of the pleasures of home-life,
that this evening with Miss Beresford
seemed to him a revelation of the joys of
heaven.

** This is jolly!" said he, looking up at
her, and smiling. The society of a young
and intelligent human being, however soured,
was entrancing after three months of solitary
evenings, varied by discussion of robberies
with the servants.

But she would not smile back. " I think
I'm past caring for mere brightness and
warmth," she said sententiously, *' though, of
course, it's better than being dull and cold.
(No, I won't have that one ; it's all brown

and soft in the middle, and you've pulled the
stalk off.) Just think how humiliating it is
for me to be sent for like a parcel, and left
here to be inspected by everybody, to see if I
shall * do.' I hope I shan't do. I should
wish I hadn't come if it were not for you''

*for me!"

*eyes. You are very kind to me, kinder
than anybody has been for a long while.
Tell me, who is the Miss M'Leod my father
mentions in his letters, and what are the
Fourniers like ?"

Miss M'Leod is housekeeper, secretary,
companion, everything, to Mr. Beresford. She
is a little dried-up old maid, who thinks herself
very young and very fascinating ; if you
want to please her you must talk about
sermons or the fashions. But she is very
kind-hearted, and when you know her well
you will like her."

'' And the Fourniers ?"

'' Oh, they're very nice. They say M.
Fournier is very avaricious and  well, that's
all they do say about him ; but he isn't
unkind  nobody is, I think, unless you get

112

in their way ; and you won't get in his, anymore
than I do. And Madame Fournier is
very fond of her children : there is Louise'
Gerald blushed and Miss Beresford looked
demurely intelligent, ' and then, of course,
there is Victor."

** Yes, that's the one I've got to marry.
What is he like ?"

** Oh, he's very handsome, and very much
admired and run after. He's a good fellow
too, and everybody likes him."

'' Do you like him ?"

*eyes."

*not very much, or you wouldn't answer
quite in that tone. Why don't you like
him r

'* I do like him ; I see a great deal of him.
If I answer rather grudgingly, it is because
I'm meanly envious of his luck, I suppose ;
he's the luckiest fellow I've ever met."

*' Well, he won't be lucky much longer,
for he will have a horrid wife."

'' Oh, but even if he had, Victor is not the
sort of man to whom that would matter
much."

'indeed!" said Miss Beresford sharply.
And he was appalled hy his own indiscretion.
However, she went on with spirit and with
the elfish look in her eyes which he had
noticed before : "So much the better. He
will go his way and I mine."

*' Why did you consent to come, if  if you
feel Hke that ?" suggested Gerald diffidently,
in a low voice.

Because there was nothing else for me todo.
I'm tired of tossing about the world
belonging to nowhere and nobody ; and earning
one's living, as I should have had otherwise
to do, is very hard and very dreary.
And at any rate, if I marry this man I shall
have a home ; and if when he sees I'm only
an ordinary insignificant little thing he declines
to fulfil the bargain, well, at any rate," with
another glance of fiendish malice, 'now my
father has once had me here and owned me as
his daughter, he can't let me starve."

I should think a girl would rather starve
than marry a man she did not love," suggested
Gerald, in a low voice.

Oh no, she wouldn't," said Miss Beresford

bitterly. *' French girls always do it,
and lots of English ones, too. And the man
one loves never has any pin-money."

She broke down at last, and began to cry.
The little suggestion of sentiment in the hard,
practical, brown-eyed elf touched Gerald's
heart, and he stroked her arm soothingly.

*' Never mind, don't cry. Perhaps he'll
earn some money, or get some left him, and
come back just in time to marry you."

' No-o, he won't. He's gone away to
America, and last time he wrote he was
engaged to a rich girl out there. I hate
her !" she cried, with another flash of fury.
*' Were you very fond of him ?"
'' Ye-es, at first."
'* I suppose he worshipped you ?"
** No, he didn't do that exactly. There
was another girl he liked better, but she had
parents and brothers and sisters, and was
very pretty, so of course she didn't like him
as much as I, who had nothing and was
plain."

*soh, but you're not plain," cried Gerald,
with quite earnest conviction. ' And he

wasn't good enough for you if he didn't care
about you more than that'*

*' Yes, he was. He was quite good enough
for me ; anybody's good enough for me."

"Oh, but that's nonsense, you know," said
Gerald, as, amused and touched by her
childish petulance, he drew his footstool close
to her, and, taking one of her little hands in
his own, caressed the fragile fingers, and
talked to her in the tone he would have used
to a spoilt child of five crying over a doll.
*' Nobody is good enough for you who doesn't
like you very much indeed, as Victor will
when he finds out what a dear, silly little
thing you are, not a bit like the stiff affected
girls he meets every day. And you will
be as happy as a bird, and "

The noise of wooden shoes was heard on
the polished floor of the adjoining room, and
the door was opened roughly by Delphine,
who ingenuously stood for a moment, with her
head a little on one side, admiring the picture
which the two young people had had neither
the time nor the wit to break up. Gerald
had, indeed, dropped Miss Beresford's hand

just in time to give more than due significance
to the fact that he had been holding it ; but
the Httle black-robed girl was still occupying
only that half of her chair which was nearest
to her companion, and the footstool on which
he was sitting was drawn close to her side.
The easy-mannered rustic servant would have
made some verbal comment on the scene, if
Gerald had not hastily prevented her by
asking what she wanted.

'* The carriage is round, monsieur, ivlien you
are ready'' said the big girl, with saucy
sympathetic good-humour.

' Thank you, Delphine, I'm coming," said
Gerald, springing up, red to the roots of his
hair.

*' And, monsieur, Marie told me to tell you
that la mere Benoit has just come to
say "

Oh, I can't listen to old Benoit's stories
now. Go and tell Henri to light the lamps ;
he always forgets them."

*' Very well, monsieur," said Delphine,
with unusual and irritating courtesy ; and she
left the room and shut the door with a

last glance of benevolent enjoyment. But
Miss Beresford did not see it ; she had kept
her eyes on the fire to hide from the servant
that she had been crying. As soon as the
door closed she looked up ; her great brown
eyes were soft and glistening from recent
tears, and the red lips of her little mouth were
quivering.

'' Don't go' said she softly, putting out
her hand. '' I shall be so lonely here all
by myself if you go, and I shall cry again.
Let the people know I've come tomorrow ;
I'm so tired to-night, I want just this one
night's peace. To-morrow they can come
and look at me, and eat me up if they like.
But do stay now."

At her first words Gerald had thrown
himself into a chair near her with an alacrity
which had encouraged her to make her voice
more persuasive and to lay her hand coaxingly
upon his sleeve. But as she went on speaking
and pleading with him he grew suddenly
shy and stiff without any clear reason, knowing
only that the voice of this little creature
whom he had been treating as a child had

a sweetness such as no music had ever had
for him, and that listening to her quite
passively as he was doing, with his face
turned away from her and his eyes fixed
on the knob at the end of the little brass
poker, was an altogether new, pleasant, and
somewhat unaccountable experience. "When
she had finished he got up and said slowly, ina
voice which sounded prim : " I must go,
Miss Beresford. French people like the
Fourniers are much more  er  much more
particular about etiquette and things like
that than English people of the same class ;
and they would be extremely offended if they
were to find out that you had been here a
day before they knew anything about it. It
might lead to their breaking off all  er  all
existing arrangements with Mr. Beresford."

Oh, and the parcel would be returned
upon his hands ; that is what you mean,
I suppose," said Miss Beresford, in a hard
and scoffing tone. " I was forgetting how
precious I have become now that my father
has found a use for me, and how important it
is that I should be well taken care of now that

I have thoroughly learnt how to take care of
myself."

Gerald stared in bewilderment at the impudent
little termagant, in whom every trace
of the sweet-voiced fairy of a few moments
ago had utterly disappeared. But even as he
looked she changed hack again to her gentler
self, and made her hack eyes soft as she
smiled at him.

'' Yes, you're quite right, I know," she
said humbly, and with a blush. ' You see,
I've been independent so long  for it was
I who took care of mamma, not mamma
of me  that I'm half a savage. When shall
I see you again ?"

She had risen to her feet, and she looked
so much more unhappy at the prospect of
being left alone than she had done while
reciting the tale of her woes as she sat by the
fire eating sweets, that it went to Gerald's
heart to leave her,

** I shall stay in Calais to-night, but I will
come back as early as ever I can tomorrow.
I should think Madame Fournier will come in
the morning, and perhaps make you go back

with her. But anyhow I will come, you may
he sure of that ; but you won't want to seeme
any more when you've seen Victor."

*' Oh yes, I shall. Do you know what I
felt this evening for the first time in my life,
Vv-hen we were sitting there, and you were
listening so patiently to my grumbling ? I
felt that I had a brother at last, to whom I
could tell everything I thought, whether it
was silly or not, without fear of being
laughed at."

She was too ignorant of the world to know
how oddly she had mistaken the offices of a
brother, and Gerald, equally simple-minded,
accepted the position with eagerness.

' You may indeed. Miss Beresford. I'm
not clever enough myself to laugh at anybody,
and you can always say whatever you
like to me "

In the delight, new to both of them, of
sympathetic companionship, they might have
gone on arranging the compact indefinitely,
if at this point the door had not been again
opened by Delphine, whose words were uttered
to the accompaniment of the sobs of an unseen

woman, who had followed the servant as far
as the next room.

Pardon, monsieur, it is not my fault that
I am interrupting you again. La mere
Benoit refuses to go away until she has seen
you. She says that M. Beresford always
hears what a poor person has to say, and as
you are here in his place, as it were "

'' Where is she, Delphine ? Of course I
will see her."

The girl jerked her head in the direction of
the next room, and Gerald went in and gently
touched the shoulder of a bent old woman,
who sobbed and moaned, and seemed utterly
unable to avail herself of the presence of the
young gentleman to detail the cause of her
distress.

** Come, come, tell the gentleman about
thy grandson," said Delphine, swooping down
upon the little crone and trying to lift her
bodily into an attitude of respectful narration.

But they failed to draw anything but inarticulate
murmuring from the old peasant
until a little black figure glided past the
muscular young servant, and kneeling domi,

slipped her arms round la mere Benoit's neck,
and said in French, with a strong foreign
accent :

Tell me what thy grandson has done'
'she is lost; the wolf-devil has got him,"
sobbed the old woman, after staring dully at
her interrogator until the sympathy in the big
brown eyes moved her to speech.

This is what she says, monsieur, mademoiselle
; little Jules saw the wolf-devil a
week ago, and you know that always brings
misfortune ; and now to-day he want across
the dunes to Moreau's farm with a load of
wood on his shoulders, and he has never come
back. And la mere thinks he may have been
robbed by the wolf-devil of the few sous he
got for the wood, which we tell her is impossible,
since it is only those who have
something worth taking who get robbed. It
is more possible that he may have lost the
money and have returned to hunt for it ; or
perhaps he may have had his foot caught ina
rabbit-hole and hurt himself. But anyway,
as I tell her, it is useless to trouble
monsieur "

'' No, it isn't," said Gerald promptly. " I
will go at once on to the dunes and look for
Jules. Henri shall take la mere home to her
cottage ; and you, Delphine, must go too, for
Henri would never dare to come back alone
while this stupid wolf-story is about. Miss
Beresford, you won't be frightened, will you ?
Marie the cook will be left in the house, and
she has plenty of courage."

And, without waiting for an answer, he
dashed out of the room, and they heard him
mounting the staircase. When he returned
to the salon, Miss Beresford had her hat on,
and Delphine was fastening the buttons on
her ulster.

"I am going with you, Mr. Staunton,"
said she quietly. 'Delphine has just told
me the story, and it seems this wolf-creature
never attacks anybody who is not alone.
No, I'm not tired ; I can walk fast, and I shall
not be in your way ; but you shan't go alone."

He made a few objections ; but as she
scarcely paid civil attention to them, he contented
himself with ascertaining that she was
warmly wrapped up, and they left the house

together. It was nearly eight o'clock, and
quite dark. As they passed Henri standing
by the gig, Gerald told him to take it back
into the stable until his return, and saying
simply ** Come along " to his companion, he
and she walked the whole length of the long
white house, over the square-paved courtyard;
and then, passing a little pond on the left
(which looked, with its background of trees,
like a yawning black pit in the darkness),
they walked on together along a rough grass-grown
path between an ill-kept hedge on the
one side and a tangled plantation on the
other, followed by a potato-field, and then
by more plantation.

*' It's very dark ; if I were alone I should
be frightened," said Miss Beresford at last.
In spite of the excitement of the strange
place and the novel circumstances of the
walk, she had become sleepy and tired again ;
and though she could walk on steadily at a
good pace, her brain was in a sort of excited
confusion, which made her glad that her
companion did not seem to want entertainment
from her.

' Hush !" said he softly. '' Look there !'*

She tried to follow his glance into the
tangle of the still almost leafless plantation,
but she could see nothing.

* Are you afraid to stand here one moment
alone ?"

*No-o," doubtfully.

She had scarcely uttered the word when
Gerald sprang away from her, and as he did
so, she heard the crackling of dry branches
and the rustle of last summer's long dead
grasses, and she knew that he was in pursuit
of some one or some thing. The chase did not
last long. In a few moments she heard a sort
of squeaking cry and a whining boy's voice.

Oh, M. Monnier, let me go  let me go !
Indeed, I saw nothing  I saw nothing; and
I swear I will never tell anyone : I swear it,
I swear it ! Oh, my poor grandmother !
Oh, don't kill me, please !"

Get up, Jules ; what are you talking
about ? I don't want to kill you. Come here."

And Gerald dragged out on to the rough
path where Miss Beresford was standing a
dishevelled, ill-fed-looking boy of twelve, who

VOL. I. 12

had turned suddenly taciturn, and who refused
to answer any questions as he stood trembling
with cold and fright in the grasp of his captor,
who led him back to " Les Bouleaux," restored
him to his grandmother, who had not
yet left the house, and gave orders that both
should have supper in the kitchen before they
returned home. Then Gerald went into the
salon to say good-bye to Miss Beresford, who
had accompanied him and his prize home very
quietly.

'' Good-night, Miss Beresford ; the gig is
waiting to take me to Calais. Delphine and
Marie will do all they can to make you comfortable.
I shall see you tomorrow ; don't
be dull. Good-night."

Good-night," said she, giving him her
hand and smiling. ' Be sure you come
early tomorrow  as early as ever you can ;
and don't forget to bring me some more
chocolate."

So he left her and got into the gig. On
the way to Calais he had plenty to think
about ; for besides that most interesting discovery
of a sweet little sister in the once-dreaded

Miss Beresford, the words that Jules
had uttered in the belief that he was addressing
Monnier the gamekeeper had roused some
strange suspicions in his mind.

I wish Mr. Beresford were here," thought
he. "I think I shall write and tell him
about this business ; he will make Jules
speak, if anybody can."

He went straight to the house of the Fourniers,
and announced Miss Beresford's arrival.
Madame Fournier asked him to spend the
night there, but he did not see Victor, who
returned home long after the rest of the family
were asleep. Next morning he was at the
factory before Victor was up, but he found
there a telegram which for several reasons
gave him great relief.

* From M, Beresford, Hotel Normandy, Paris.
' To M. Staunton, Fahriqiie Fournier,
*' Saint Pier re-use Calais.
*' Arrived here from Nice last night. Shall
he at Calais at 12.53 to-night."

'* Now everything will be all right again !"
said Gerald to himself joyfully.

122

It was a quarter to six o'clock on the evening
of Thursday, March 29th, that Mr. Beresford,
of the firm of Fournier and Beresford, lace
manufacturers, arrived in Paris on his way
from Nice, and drove straight to the Hotel
Normandy, where rooms on the third floor
had been engaged for him by telegraph some
days before. He grumbled exceedingly on
the way thither at the terrible inconvenience
either alternative of staircase or lift would
cause him, on account of the partial paralysis
of his left side, which had for nearly five
years made locomotion difficult for him. The
little prim English lady. Miss M'Leod, who
was his devoted nurse, secretary, companion,
butt, and scapegoat, condoled with him on
this misfortune with perfect sincerity, although

she knew that it was parsimony and not
poverty which prevented him from installing
himself in comfort and luxury on the first floor.
She was a curious study, this small, spare,
haughty, high-dried lady, by herself so insignificant
that the handsome dresses in which she
delighted to array her tiny person were quite
without effect, and the height at which she
carried her little pinched nose and shrivelled
chin gave her, not the dignity she craved, but
the stiff" air of a doll of our grandmothers'
time, which, after having been carefully packed
away for half a century, has been discovered
and repaired and decked out in clothes of
modern fashion at a great sacrifice of congruity.
But having had the luck to see, four
years and a half ago, Mr. Beresford's advertisement
for '* an English lady of tact and
refinement as companion-housekeeper to a
middle-aged invalid'' Miss M'Leod, after
quieting those maidenly scruples which are
never so strong as at forty, had been interviewed,
approved of, and installed in a position
for which, by every little crook in her
narrow mind, every little whim of her kind

heart, she seemed peculiarly fitted. Away
from Mr. Beresford she was nothing ; as the
right hand of the invalid oracle of ' Les
Bouleaux " she was quite a great lady. Soin
return for a courteous deference, in which
she was not clever enough to discern *' chaff,"
she yielded him a devotion more complete
and absorbing than worshipper at altar ever
paid, and was gradually becoming as necessary
to him as he was to her.

As they were driving from the station to
the hotel, Mr. Beresford slowly drew his head
far enough out of the multitude of wraps in
which his neck was swathed to speak with
sufficient clearness to be understood. The
paralytic stroke which had deprived him of
the free use of his right arm and leg had
affected his speech in a curious manner, producing
the effect of his tongue being intractable,
and apt to get in the way. Miss
M'Leod, however, seldom failed to gather his
meaning, and she now understood him to
grumble at the amazing remissness of Mr.
Smith in not turning up at the station to
meet him. Miss M'Leod drew up her little

person with an electric shock of dignified disgust,
and Mr. Beresford gave a dry chuckle
on noticing it.

** What has poor Smith done to offend you,
that the very mention of his name is always
enough to turn your smiles into frowns ?"
asked he.

But he knew ; for the housekeeper was as
jealous of her influence with her employer as
ever fair lady was of her power over her lover,
and *' that Mr. Smith " ran her very close in
Mr. Beresford's confidence, and was the thorn
in the little lady's side. He was the cleverest
of the travellers for the firm, and it was well
understood that in that matter of predicting
the coming fashions in lace, which had done
so much for the firm's fortunes, Mr. Beresford
never prophesied unless Mr. Smith knew.
During the three months she had just spent
at Nice, Miss M'Leod had been spared the
sight of the hated one, though she had had to
read aloud his business letters, and to affect
admiration of their sagacity ; but to hear his
absence regretted in the very first minutes of
their arrival in Paris was too much for her
patience.

*' Nothing, monsieur," said she in French,
the language Mr. Beresford now habitually
used ; 'but I think it would have been more
courteous of him to meet you, since he knew
at what time you would arrive."

'' Well, well, it is the first time he has
failed to do so, and some accident must have
prevented his coming. Or perhaps he was at
the station and we missed him."

In that case he will certainly be at the
hotel within a few minutes of your arrival
there," said Miss M'Leod, sincerely hoping
that the obnoxious clerk would fail to put in
an appearance that evening, and thus give
her a legitimate ground of complaint against
him.

Come, tell me the reason of your dislike
to poor Smith ; you are a lady of far too
much sense to take an unreasonable prejudice,
especially against a man who admires you so
much as he does."

But the implied compliment left her frigid.
She cast about for a reason, and found one
that would serve.

** Mr. Smith takes too much credit to himself

for the work he does for sou, which is,
after all, of quite a subordinate kind, and
consists merely in following out your suggestions.
He absolutely boasts of his authority
with you ; and I am sure I would not wish to
say anything against a man behind his back,
but I certainly do believe that, while working
for you, he is working for himself too."

'' Naturally. That is the secret of getting
well served, to make your own interest that
of your servants."

'* But if those interests should happen to
run different ways, the servant will follow
his own' said Miss M'Leod, whose Christianity
was apt to grow weak as she grew
warm.

** How do you mean ?" asked Mr. Beresford,
indulgent and amused.

*' Why, that I believe  not that I would
for the World say anything against a person
without proof  that Mr. Smith is more benton
making his own fortune than on making
yours''

' I dare say he is human enough for
that."

'' And I have seen him, out of a packet of
letters which he has taken from his pocket to
read to you, slip hack one or two, with a
quick ghiuce at you, as if afraid that you
should see them. I believe he has secret
communications with some one," she finished,
with a romance-inspired air of mystery.

*' Well, he may have communications from
the Prince of Darkness himself, as long as
the intelligence he obtains from him is accurate
and useful."

And Miss M'Leod, to whom even profanity
lost its wickedness coming from the lips of
her employer, shut up her mouth tightly, as
if to force hack any more disregarded revelations
; and they reached the Hotel Normandy
in silence.

Mr. Smith was not there, had not even
called there, did not arrive during dinner, at
the end of which meal Miss M'Leod was
secretly triumphant, Mr. Beresford evidently
uneasy. He refused to go to bed, and insisted
on sitting up, on the chance of his trusted
clerk's arrival. At last she suggested that, if
Mr. Beresford knew his address, he should be

sent for at once. Pierre could go in a fiacre
with the message. Now Pierre was Mr.
Beresford valet, a faithful hut incompetent
old servitor, who had been engaged out of
charity, or to illustrate Mr. Beresford's theory
that fidelity and intelligence in any being
except a dog are always found in inverse
proportion. The journey from Nice having
confused the old man's faculties more than
ever, his master hesitated at Miss M'Leod's
suggestion.

I suppose it would he too much to ask
Ijoii to he kind enough to drive as far as the
Pine de la Bienfaisance to the Hotel Alexandra,
where Smith is staying ?" said he,
with courtesy which did not hide the fact that
the suggestion was a command. *' If you
would not mind seeing Smith if he is in, or
waiting for him if he is out, I should be exceedingly
indebted to you. You will then
insist, in my name, on knowing fully the
reason of his unaccountable non-appearance,
and, if possible, you will bring him back with
you."

Miss M'Leod rose stiffly, bowed obedience

without speaking, and left the room to get
ready for this distasteful expedition. When
she returned to take the last commands before
starting, Mr. Beresford showed a malicious
disposition to rally her which was cleverly
calculated to ensure her speedy return.

*rit is very confiding on my part to send
you instead of Pierre, since everyone knows
that a lady in search of a gentleman is only
less expeditious than a gentleman in search of
a lady. I won't even ask you to promise not
to let Smith tell the cocker to come a long
way round."

Mr. Beresford was sitting by the low square
fireplace, where a wood fire was glowing. At
the opposite side of the room, which was large
and served as bed and sitting room, the old
valet, who was scarcely less infirm than his
master, was pottering about with an incapable
air of being busy with his master's portmanteau.
The white cloth and the dessert had
been removed from the table, which was now
covered by a mossy-looking, heavily fringed
velvet cloth, to which a couple of wax candles,
in tall plated candlesticks that stood upon it a

yard apart, gave a lugubrious suggestion of a
pall-covered coffin. Miss M'Leod, standing
near the door in her ladylike black silk gown
and heavily trimmed black mantle, shuddered
at her employer's indelicate pleasantry.

*' I can assure you I shall not make any attempt
to detain Mr, Smith'' said she haughtily,
with a spirited implication that, had the
gentleman been more agreeable to her, he
would have found it difficult to resist her
fascinations.

*'Yery well, very well," said Mr. Beresford,
nodding his head slowly ; ** on that
assurance I will trust you. Tell him, if you
like to be severe, that it does not look well
for an old cripple of fifty-two to be ready for
business discussion after a tiring journey,
while he, a mere lad of five-and-thirty, is
sitting at ease over his claret and thinks that
business will do in the morning. Tell him I
shall expect him up to ten o'clock, and that I
hope to be in possession of all the intelligence
he has to give me before midnight ; and ask
him to bring with him the letters from
Madame d'Argentan, M. Bontaud, and M. de

Breteuil on the subject of the orders we have
had from them'

** What are the three names ? I will write
them down."

'No, no, it is not necessary. Say the
three large orders we have just received. I
am really much obliged to you for going,
especially when you are so tired."

*' Oh, monsieur, if you can sit up to talk
business, surely I "

The greed of gain would keep a dormouse
awake. You need not come to me
again to-night; you can go straight to your
room and rest. Good-night."

He rose slowly and raised her small gloved
hand to his lips ; difficult as movement was
to him, he never omitted this nightly ceremony,
which was indeed but a small price to
pay for the slavish devotion it did much
towards purchasing. It was the signal for
Pierre to take this stand behind his master's
chair, ready to afford his pompous but hindering
services in getting him to bed. Miss
M'Leod, as usual, received this salute with
downcast eyes, looked up with a gracious

smile and a curtsey, and retired, with a
pleasant feeling of satisfaction with herself
and her own position, from her employer's
presence. Mr. Beresford, though he was
only of the middle height, with a round back
and the awkward stoop of the short-sighted,
had a dignity about his massive grey-haired
head, silver-streaked beard, and dark eyes
shining from under thick eyebrows that were
almost white, which made it easy to do
homage to him.

Almost reconciled to her disagreeable task,
Miss M'Leod went down the wide shallow-stepped
staircase, which she preferred to the
lift, as she thought the sweep of her silk train
behind her made her more impressive than
the mere package one became when pulled up
and down in that little square box. Then
she sent for fiacre, and gave the address of
the Hotel Alexandra as she stepped in with a
stately air. She was half-way there, and
was composing an opening speech which
should fulfil Mr. Beresford's wishes whilst
letting the abhorred Smith know that he
must keep his distance, when a voice

shouting to the driver made her lower the
window to see what was the matter. A
commissionaire sitting beside the driver of
another /<:cr, which had apparently followed
hers at full speed, was telling her own driver
to stop, as he jumped down and came to the
window.

The gentleman of whom madame is in
search has just arrived at the Hotel Normandy''
said the commissionaire, raising his
cap politely.

She recognised the man as the one who
had called her fiacre, and ordered the driver
to return, very thankful that she had not had
to fulfil her task. She was congratulating
herself that she should not have to see Mr.
Smith at all, as she passed Mr. Beresford's
door and heard the clerk's full, clear, rich
voice on the other side, when the handle was
turned, and a little fat man, with a black
bullet head and twinkling clever black eyes 
just such a man as the voice foretold  came
out, and seizing her frigid reluctant hand,
took it in both his and shook it warmly.

*'My dear, dear Miss M'Leod," as if

bursting to express the enthusiasm he felt
about her, *' I am so sorry, so inexpressibly
sorry that you should have had" to turn out
in the damp and the cold on my account.
I've had to blow up dear old B. about it, I
have really. He might have trusted me not
to neglect my business," he went on, ignoring
her evident disgust at his disrespectful mention
of his employer. ' When we poor working
devils get an order from a swell, you know,
we must cool our hoofs in his anteroom at
his own time ; and M. de Breteuil  I daresay
you've heard of him, he's one of the tiptop
nobs here "  Miss M'Leod shuddered 
' having done us the favour to order a lot of
lace for which he wants special designs, sent
for me just as I was starting to meet you and
dear B. at the station. Then, after keeping
me for two whole hours looking at two cursed
bad pictures of dumpy Frenchwomen we-
wouldn't have for barmaid in London  no,
don't go," said he, detaining her by the jetted
sleeve of her mantle, obtusely failing or
pretending to fail to understand her sudden
turning away  ' well, he had me in, looked

VOL. I. 13

clown at me some miles, and told me to send
one of the principals of the firm to him.
I've just told old B., and he's nearly off his
head about it," added he, jerking his round
black head back in the direction of Mr.
Beresford's room. 'That just touches his
dignity, you know. So he's writing to my
lord himself, and he vows he'll have the
gentleman here himself tomorrow morning.
Shouldn't wonder if he did. Old B. can do
wonders when his back's up."

Writing himself! He can't ; you should
have let him dictate the letter to you. I
must go and do it myself." Her hand was
already on the door.

Mr. Smith did not attempt to stop her,
except by a shrug of the shoulders and a
significant twitch of his eyebrows.

"Go in if you like, my dear lady, but he
won't let you write that letter. He's in one
of his black humours, and whatever sort of
scrawl he manages to produce will be much
to the point, I fancy."

Miss M'Leod's hand dropped. Mr. Beresford
could make himself very unpleasant

indeed vlieii lie was annoyed, and even
devotion grew cooler at the thought of the
look with which he would receive an unbidden
intruder.

"If you do go in," continued Mr. Smith
magnanimously, '* say I sent you. My
shoulders are broad enough to bear the blame,
and my credit with him is good enough for
him to forgive you if you use my authority."

Whether or not there was a touch of
malice in this speech, it fired the lady at
once. " I use no authority but that of Mr.
Beresford himself, sir ; and if it came to a
question of your credit against mine, the
balance would perhaps not be so much in
your favour as you imagine''

She was turning away most haughtily to
go to her room, when her enemy, with a
chuckling good-humoured laugh which exasperated
her more than a chorus of blasphemies,
seized her right hand, and insisted
upon shaking it warmly, while he said in a
tone in which even she could detect sly
mockery, " Well, well, don't let such a trifle
disturb the friendship of old pals like you and

132

me. I'm sure I would rather see old B. and
his authority too at the bottom of the sea
than contradict a lady. I'm afraid I shan't
be able to go down to * Les Bouleaux ' with
you tomorrow evening, but I promise you
I'll come down on the following morning
without fail  and the hours between now and
then will seem very long."

Sour-faced, indignant, she suffered the
hand-pressure she could not escape, but made
no attempt to echo his affectionate sentiments
: the moment he let her hand fall she
forgot her dignity, and scurried off to her
own room like a mouse dropped from the jaws
of a cat.

But the poor lady had not seen or heard
the last of her tormentor. On the following
morning, when, as usual at eleven o'clock,
she went towards Mr. Beresford's room to
offer her services to read or write for him,
just as her little knuckles touched the panels
of the door to give a modest rap, she caught
the sound of the clerk's hated voice, and,
retreating hastily to her room, she put on her
bonnet, determined to take the opportunity of

a little shopping in Paris and to avoid her
enemy at the same time. As she reached
the entrance of the hotel on her way out,
she noticed a little group of waiters watching
an arrival with unusual interest.

C'est M. de Breteuil, le millionnaire
gal ant," said one of the group to another
who had just joined them.

Miss M'Leod was not very well versed in
the scandals of Paris, less perhaps from lack
of interest than of opportunity ; but she had
heard of this man and of the marvellous
vitality of his notoriety, and she stood aside
with some curiosity on pretence of gathering
up the train which no change of fashion could
induce her to discard, to see the bold badman
pass. She saw him step out of his
dainty little dark-coloured couiic, which, with
its pair of small, long-tailed, black horses
and its pair of dark-liveried fur-caped servants,
looked like the sombre freak of a blonde
demi-montaigne. An Englishman would have
looked upon the turn-out  from the showy
high-stepping horses, with their foam covered
bits and heads held tightly in with the

bearing-rein, to the little black toy behind
them with the coroneted gilt monogram L. B.
on the panels  as he would have looked at
the advertisement car of a circus : but in
Paris it was the envy and admiration of menas
well as women. The owner of the carriage
bore the stamp of his reputation with gratifying
clearness. Miss M'Leod felt her curiosity
stimulated instead of lessened as she took a
keen and comprehensive survey of the tall,
slight, erect gentleman, better dressed than
most fashionable Frenchmen, whose dark
clear-cut face and easy bearing impressed her
so much that she passed upon him the mental
comment of the imaginative milliner: 'height
be a prince V

"Did you see him ?" said in her ear the
voice she loathed, as soon as M. de Breteuil
had passed. " He wouldn't take any notice
of me, though I came down on purpose to
receive him. However, I'm going up again,
and he'll have to be civil to me in the guvnor's
presence. I'm too useful to old B. for him
to stand by and see me insulted by any
popinjay foreigner."

' M. de Breteuil is every inch a gentleman
: anyone with any knowledge of good
society can see that," said Miss M'Leod
superciliously.

*' Oh yes, he's as fine a gentleman as hardy
and a good tailor can make him. You're
mashed, I see. Well, well, I should be content
to look as well at his age."

His ao'e !" echoed Miss M'Leod involuntarily.
" Why, he can't be more than
thirty !"

** He can, though; he can be more by a
good ten years. Well, I must follow my lord
upstairs, I suppose. Au revoir, Miss M'Leod:
if I don't see you again before you start I
wish you a pleasant journey ; you won't be so
dull at * Les Bouleaux ' when young Miss
Beresford arrives to keep you company."

And with this artfully barbed speech, for
the housekeeper was already madly jealous of
her employer's daughter, the little man turned
and trotted upstairs.

When Miss M'Leod returned from her walk,
she saw the little black coupe driving away ;
meeting Pierre outside his master's door, sh

learnt that both Mr. Smith and M. de Breteuil
had gone, and she therefore hastened to present
herself to Mr. Beresford. He was in one of
his moods of almost absolute silence, as usual
after a business talk with Mr. Smith ; but the
aggrieved housekeeper chose to think that the
latter had been ' making mischief," and that
the reflective taciturnity with which Mr.
Beresford endured her reading of the Figaro
rather than listened to it was the result not
so much of deep thought over the fluctuations
of the lace-market as of temporary
estrangement from herself. It was something
to believe, however, that for the present
her enemy was removed ; and it was with no
welcome in her eyes that she saw the clerk's
fat, happy, good-humoured face at the Gare
du Nord that evening, when she and Mr.
Beresford drove up on the way to continue
their journey to *' Les Bouleaux,"

He raised his round hat to her, and gave a
too familiar nod to his employer. ** I couldn't
get you a carriage to yourselves, in spite of
the Baron's pass," said he, looking in cheerfully
at the window of the Fiacre. '' The train

is going to be very full, and these cl  d
Frenchmen just take your tips and then pack
you in like sardines all the same. I could
only get you one to yourselves by paying
double fare for each unoccupied seat."

No, no, you don't mean to say you've
done that!" stammered Mr. Beresford.

** No, it's all right," laughed Smith, in
mischievous delight at the fright he had
given to his employer's parsimony. 'i've
arranged that you are not to have more than
two other people with you, so you can both
put your feet up and be comfortable. One
must consider the lady, you know," he added
politely.

It was evident that the lady would rather
have travelled in the luggage-van than be
considered by him ; but Mr. Smith was
unctuously impervious to snubs. He led
them, armed with the pass he had obtained
from one of the directors who knew Mr.
Beresford, to a compartment the further
comers of which were already occupied by
two gentlemen. The guard unlocked the
door for them : Mr. Beresford was carefully

helped iu tidal seated in one corner, while
Miss M'Leod took the fourth, which was
opposite to him. Mr. Smith gave her a
cheering assurance at parting, as he stood on
the platform, beaming up at her with his
twinkling black eyes through the spectacles
he sometimes wore.

*' It won't be long before I see you again,
my dear lady. I have one more call to make
on our estimable friend, the king of snobs,
M. Louis de Breteuil, who has condescended
to give me an audience at half-past eleven
tomorrow morning ; that done, the claims of
duty will be satisfied, and I shall fly to your
feet."

At the mention of M. de BreteuiFs name,
both the strangers in the carriage turned
their heads quickly towards the speaker. Mr.
Beresford, who noticed everything, saw this,
and frowned slightly at his clerk's indiscreet
mention of such an important client. Mr.
Smith, seeing nothing of all this, continued
to babble happily on.

You will have a little pleasant excitement
at ' Les Bouleaux 'snow. Have you seen the

account of old Dupont's being robbed the
other day ? It appears they've been having
quite a gay old time about there with a
mysterious robber, who is said to be a loup'
(jarou, and to take a lot of killing. So you
had better not go about after dark until I
come down to take care of you, Miss M'Leod.
Ah! you're off; good-bye, and a safe journey
to you. The train gets in at Calais at 12.53 ;
and I've telegraphed to Staunton this morning,
and he'll be sure to meet you. Goodbye
!"

Again, at the mention of the name Staunton,
the two strangers looked round. Both men
were past middle age ; the elder, a short red-faced
man with snow-white hair and moustache,
wore a carefully brushed coat and hat of the
fashion of some years ago, and bore himself
with an old-fashioned affectation of military
swagger which would have been altogether
offensive had it not suggested to the shrewd
a spirited struggle against adverse fortune.
The younger of the two by a few years was
evidently a man of more assured position.
He was tall and broad, with keen candid eyes

and features still handsome, though his hair,
moustache, and close-cut beard were iron-grey.
Both men were evidently English.

'* Curious coincidence, the mention of both
those names," suggested the former, in a
voice meant only for his friend.

Coincidence ! Something more than that,
perhaps," said the other thoughtfully; and
he looked with much attention from the
invalid gentleman to the little faded lady as
the train steamed out of the station.

Mr. Beresford had already closed his eyes,
not for sleep, but as an intimation that he did
not wish to be disturbed. In a few minutes,
however, he felt a touch upon his arm, and
found that the housekeeper was sitting by his
side.

"Mr. Beresford," she whispered very low
in his ear, * please forgive me for disturbing
you, but I must warn you against those two
men. They keep watching us with their
eyes half closed in a way that makes me
nervous. I believe they are"  she formed
the last word with her mouth only 
*' thieves."

Mr. Beresford did not answer, but lie
glanced at the seat she had left as an intimation
for her to return to it. She did so at
once, snubbed, as she had expected to be.
But her words, also as she had expected, had
had their effect, and from under his travelling-cap
the invalid took a very careful survey of
the travellers.

To a person who travels but seldom, a nights
in an express train is of itself exciting
; but when that person's only companions
are two powerful-looking strangers of
suspicious manners, and a paralysed friend,
too sleepy even to listen to a whisper of
warning, the excitement grows too strong to
be pleasant. So, during the whole of the
fifty minutes' run between Paris and Creil,
the first stopping-place, Miss M'Leod sat
upright, keeping strict surveillance on the
two unknown Englishmen, and debating with
herself whether, in case of attack, she should
first make a rush for the communicator, and
then show fight with her umbrella, or make
play with the latter trusty weapon at the first
sign of danger. The spirited little lady's

valour got so miicli the better of her discretion
that, when the taller of the strangers got
up to reach his travelling-cap, a restraining
glance from Mr. Beresford was only just intime
to save him from being harpooned.
When the train stopped at Creil, however, and
the strangers both thrust their heads out of
window, on the principle of making the most
of their opportunities of seeing France, the
paralytic found a chance of assuring his companion
that her anxiety Alas thrown away.

' What you think suspicious in them is
probably suspicion of us," said he. * They
are both the rawest of Englishmen, old as
they are : hearing us talk French, they believe
us to be French : believing that, conscience
shows them in us a pair of detectives, told off
specially to pounce upon the bundle of bad
cigars and the bottle of cognac, which will be
smashed before they get to London, on which
England expects every man to evade the
duty."

She looked only half convinced ; so he
added, " I'll prove to you they are harmless
before wc go another mile."

No sooner had the train started adam, than
Mr. Beresford asked courteously m English if
they would forgive the fussiness of an invalid,
and shut the window at their end of the compartment.
The taller of the two complied at
once, and instantly seized the opportunity of
opening conversation with the heaven-sent
stranger who, in this wild land, had perfect
command of the British tongue.

'' I hope you will pardon the question, but
are you not a fellow-countryman of ours ? I
thought you were French as long as you spoke
French ; but you speak English so well that
I can hardly believe you are not an Englishman."


The most formal stiffness could scarcely
have been proof against the genial straightforwardness
of the gentleman's manner, and
Mr. Beresford answered at once, ' You are
right in both guesses : I was wholly an
Englishman up to the age of forty-six ; but
for the last six years I have been a naturalized
Frenchman. I need not say that my French
I had picked up some time before then''

The other had taken a seat nearer to the

paralyzed man, whose impeded speech was
rather difficult for a stranger to understand.
After a few general remarks, in the course of
which both the visitors were disappointed to
find that their resident countryman did not
sweepingly condemn all French institutions,
the taller of the two asked Mr. Beresford if he
had been to the great sale which had taken
place a few days before in the hotel of the
Parisian millionnaire, M. de Breteuil.

*' No," answered the other; ''I only arrived
in Paris from Nice last night, although,
as it happened, it was chiefly business with
this very M. de Breteuil which forced me to
break my journey to my own home."

* Ah ! then he is a friend of yours ?"

** No, a client. M. de Breteuil would be
extremely indignant to hear those terms confounded.
I am afraid you must have heard
my clerk, at the station, claim acquaintance
with him in rather indiscreet language ; but I
have myself little to find fault with in the
gentleman's dealings with me."

*' To tell the truth, my friend and I are a
good deal interested and puzzled about him."

VOL. I. 14

The other stranger was listening with deep
attention. *' We were both at this sale yesterday
: he on business, I on pleasure. We
had heard a great deal about a famous Murillo
of his, which was to be sold, as we hear all
this extravagant gentleman's things get sold
sooner or later, because the owner was tired
of it. But on examination this masterpiece
proved to be nothing but a copy of a picture
in a church at Seville, a copy so flagrant 
not that I could have detected it myself, for
I know little or nothing about pictures  that
my friend here declares that it is almost incredible
that a connoisseur could be taken in
by it."

It is doubtful whether M. de Breteuil is
a connoisseur. It is the metier of such men
ass he to get all out of life that is to be got ;
art must yield its pleasures as well as sport
and the ballet, though all those tastes don't
get equally well cultivated, and it is perhaps
easier to pass judgment on the turn of an
ankle or the points of a horse than on the
merits of a picture."

Both the other men laughed, and the

white-haired one broke into the conversation
with a voice in which a shade of unnecessary
familiarity took the place of the ease which
a more assured social position gave to his
friend.

*' I went myself to Paris expressly to seethe
picture, and I can tell you I was disappointed,
unmistakably disappointed. And if
a swell can't choose his own pictures he ought
at least to choose his picture-buyers, and not
trust his reputation in the hands of some
swindling thief who is a better judge of the
canvas than he is of the painting."

From the warm personal interest with
which he said this, it was easy to guess that
the speaker thought he could have fulfilled
the commission better himself.

I am sorry your journey should have been
without result," said Mr. Beresford to the
other stranger.

''Oh, my own visit to Paris was merely
for pleasure," he answered, *' with the exception
of some fruitless inquiries about the
son of a man who was once a friend of mine,

142

who has now been lost sight of for some
years."

'' Indeed ! An Englishman T*
*' Yes ; he was a lad of eighteen when he
disappeared ; he threw up a situation he had
in London in order to come to France to
make inquiries about  about some family
affairs, and he has never been heard of in
England from that day to this."
'* How long ago was that ?"
* Six years, or about that."
'* And the young fellow's name ?"
Staunton  Gerald Staunton."
Mr. Beresford glanced at Miss M'Leod,
who could not restrain an exclamation of
astonishment.

'' I think I can help you," said he quietly.
** To tell you the truth, I have been hoping
that you might, for I heard the gentleman
who saw you off at the station mention the
name of Staunton; and I, superstitiously
perhaps, took it for a good omen. Is the

man to whom you referred "

Gerald Staunton ? Yes. He is a clerk
in my employment."

'* Impossible !"

** I met the lad in Paris when he was ina
sad strait, and I took him up."

*' A very generous act."

*' Not quite that. I am not a philanthropist.
But a man whom you pluck from
the mire will usually turn out either a very
good servant or a very bad one, and I can
generally trust my judgment upon the
material in my hand."

*' And you are satisfied in this case ?"

'* Perfectly. If you are going as far as
Calais you will see him to-night ; Gerald will
be at the station to meet us."

Yes, yes, I had intended to cross tonight,"
said the other, who had grown much
excited over the discovery. ** But I almost
think I shall spend the night at Calais, in
order to see Gerald and have a talk with
him."

'' If you wish to do that, I hope you will
do me the honour to accept such poor hospitality
as I can offer you for the night. I live
three miles out of Calais, and Staunton lives
with me."

*' Oh, you are too kind; I could not think
of "

*you will be conferring a great favour
upon me if you will come ; I am, as you see,
a cripple, forced to lead the life of a hermit,
and grateful for any echoes from the outer
world. Besides, I shall be very glad of
some conversation with a gentleman who
knew Staunton's father; and I am  as
my nurse opposite is trying to make me
understand  not fit to talk any more just
now."

His voice had been growing weaker and
weaker, and he gave his name almost in a
whisper to the stranger, who in turn introduced
himself as Mr. Albert Shaw, of the
London Stock Exchange. And the white-haired
man, who was at least as talkative as
his friend, and who had been panting for a
chance of joining in the conversation, here
thrust in the announcement that his name
was Blair, and that he was extremely
honoured to make Mr. Beresford's acquaintance.
The latter hardly seemed reciprocally
overwhelmed, nor did he extend his in vita-thou

to the speedily smart humble friend, who
looked as if he would like it.

Mr. Beresford was evidently exhausted by
the fatigue of talking through the noise of revolving
wheels, and he lay back in his corner
again, with closed eyes and with a drawn expression
upon his face which alarmed his
faithful companion, who propped him up and
dosed him with brandy-and-water and ,
until he begged her to leave him
alone ; and she insisted on running to the
buffet at Amiens, where the train stopped for
twelve minutes, and the two Englishmen
rushed out for coffee and cognac, to get him
some chocolate, which Mr. Beresford could
always eat, and in the sustaining power of
which she had great faith.

It was seven minutes past ten when the
train went on again ; by this time there had
come upon all the travellers a wish to get what
sleep they could, and within ten minutes of
leaving Amiens each corner of the carriage
held a silent and torpid human being in some
unlovely attitude of disturbed and disturbing
slumber. But they one and all settled

gradually into stillness and quietness as the
train went on, until not a limb moved, not a
head stirred except to fall forward heavily as
sleep took a stronger hold upon them. Miss
M'Leod held out the longest, with the dutiful
watchfulness of the nurse. But as she saw
Mr. Beresford's eyes close and heard his
regular breathing grow deep in sleep, she felt
that she might safely indulge the craving for
slumber which was becoming indeed too
strong to be resisted. It seemed to her, as
she made one last languid effort to sit up and
keep awake, that the air was becoming
strangely heavy and oppressive ; she glanced
up at the ventilator over the door next to
which she sat, and saw that it was shut ;
turning her tired eyes towards the opposite
one she found that shut also, and the next
moment her flagging senses were stimulated
into sudden liveliness by the horrible appearance
of the man who had given his name as
Blair. His head was hanging down, his
mouth was wide open, his travelling cap had
fallen off, his wavy white hair fell disordered
about a face the colour of which had changed

from red to purple, while his difficult, stertorous
breathing gave her what seemed a
convincing proof that he was in an apoplexy.

She started up and raised her hand towards
the ventilator, but fell staggering back into
her seat, sick, giddy, and somnolent. Again
she tried to rouse her failing senses, and after
endeavouring in vain to wake Mr. Beresford,
who sat opposite to her, by pulling the sleeve
of his left arm, she called to him, and said :
"Wake up! do wake up! Something will
happen to us, something has happened to 
us  all ! Wake up !"

But her voice sounded weak and thin in
her own dulled ears, and Mr. Beresford,
whose head had sunk deep into the comforter
round his neck, remained deaf and inert.
She had just sense enough left to know that
they were all in some danger and to feel
despair at her own powerlessness to avert it,
when the gradual slackening of the train told
her that they were coming into a station. A
great throb of thankfulness lifted her heart,
and then she sank into unconsciousness.

The station into which they were running

was Abbeville, but neither the stopping nor
the starting of the train disturbed the four
travellers. The guard had looked in at the
window, but as Mr. Blair sat at the end of
the carriage, and the little blind was drawn
down behind him, the guard did not see
enough of his figure to guess that anything
was wrong. So on they went through the darkness,
and neither the shriek of the engine nor
the rumble of the wheels, nor the wind which
began to howl as they drew northwards and
to drive sheets of pattering rain against the
windows, disturbed any of the slumbering
occupants of the carriage, until all at once the
violent slamming of one of the doors roused
Mr. Shaw and Mr. Beresford into partial consciousness.
The former raised his head,
muttered an indistinct question, and grew
drowsy again for a few moments, until the
feeble voice of the paralysed man calling to
him, and a gust of cold air and rain coming
through the door, made him open his eyes,
and this time more intelligently. For some
seconds he still sat blinking before him without
much sense of what he saw or of what he

heard, when a second loud noise like that
which had first aroused him startled him into
full wakefulness, and he suddenly became
aware at the same moment of two facts : the
first, that his companion in the opposite
corner was ill ; the second, that the door by
which he was sitting had in some unaccountable
manner got open, and that it was the
noise made by its banging to which had woke
him up. It was open again at the moment
of his discovery, and the wind was driving
the rain in upon his rug and upon that of his
friend, which had fallen to the floor.

He at once shut the door and turned the
handle securely, and then, placing himself
beside his friend Blair, he tried to rouse the
unconscious man, whose breathing was
still heavier and his appearance more alarming
than when he had frightened Miss M'Leod.
Mr. Shaw himself still felt curiously heavy
and stupid, and thankful for the windy gusts
of air coming through the window, the glass
of which he had let down, in spite of the rain,
to revive his companion. He was at first
too much absorbed to pay any but the

most monosyllabic attention to the weak
queries of the paralytic in the corner, who,
philosopher as he liked to be considered,
grew as effeminate and querulous as other
invalids in moments of excitement, and kept
up an intermittent fire of questions as to what
the matter was, who it was that had opened
the door, and what the station was they had
stopped at last. He also was too sleeps
at first to wait for answers or to understand
them when they were given ; but he went on
asking all the same, until the movement and
the cold wind and the voices had in turn
roused Miss M'Leod, who started to her feet
in fright as soon as she woke up, and called
shrilly: 'what's the matter? "What has
happened ?"

*' I don't know, I don't know; do sit down,"
quavered Mr. Beresford testily. '' When I
woke up just now the door at that end
was open, and the wind and rain pouring
in like a hurricane. And I feel quite sick
with the noise and the cold, and I want
you to give me my flask."

She found it for him, and filled the little

silver cup nitric clumsily, for her head ached,
and her hands were shaking ; and then, the
invalid's wants being satisfied when she had
pulled up his rug round him, and drawn
his cap over his ears and his comforter over
his chin, she turned her ministering attentions
to the white-haired Englishman, who, supported
by the arms of his friend, was slowly
recovering consciousness.

' Is he ill ?" asked Mr. Beresford, becoming
at last aware that some one in the
carriage was more in need of attention than
himself.

' Yes, very ill, I am afraid ; I can't think
what is the matter with him''

' Something seems to me to be the matter
with us all," said Mr. Beresford, after a short
pause, during which, curiosity getting the
better of his fear of the draught, he had
cautiously withdrawn his face far enough out
of the ramparts of cap and comforter to note
the pallid faces and heavy eyes of his companions.
Mr. Shaw started, and glanced
over his shoulder at him ; and the eyes of
both men, as they exchanged long, scrutinising

looks, read in those of the other a chilling
bewildering suspicion.

"You don't think, do you " began

Mr. Shaw, and hesitated.

But the paralysis which had affected the
other's limbs had left his head clear enough,
and thought shaped itself quickly in his brain.

'miss M'Leod," he called sharply though
still feebly, '' come here." She came obediently.
He gave her some directions in a low
tone of voice, and she took down his bag,
turned over the contents under his orders
until she came upon a little common tin
cash-box, which he himself examined and
found untouched, and then took his purse
from the pocket he directed. He looked
through that also, and these movements,
although carried out very quietly, did not
escape the notice of Mr. Shaw.

"I hope to Heaven," he said, in a low
voice, *' that it's all right. For robbery
would mean ruin to one of us. Here, Blair,
my man, wake up. Ah, that's better !
Drink a little of this ; the stuffy carriage has
nearly poisoned all of us."

*' Poisoned !" cried the little housekeeper
shrilly. *' Oh, don't say that, it frightens
me ! I can't understand it all. I believe
there is something wrong  some one must
have got in."

'got in!" echoed suddenly the voice of
Mr. Blair, who had not yet spoken. " Who's
got in ?"

He sat up and looked about him ; the
deep colour of his face had faded a little, but
was still some shades darker than his naturally
florid complexion ; his silver white hair,
which he wore rather long, was tossed wildly
about, and his blue eyes were dilated and
bloodshot.

What did you say about some one getting
in ?" he asked, turning hazily towards the
lady.

' Why, we are all so stupid and heavy,
and  and the door was open just now, and 
and I thought that  that something must 
might  have happened," said the little woman
stammering in some confusion as she observed
the intentness with which the little man's
eyes were fixed upon her, and seemed to grow

rounder and more prominent as he bent further
forward, as if trying hard to take in every
word that she was saying.

His manner frightened her ; she began to
think he must be mad, and could scarcely
restrain a shriek, nervous and excited as she
was, when, still leaning on the right elbow, by
which he supported himself upon the seat, he
raised his right hand slowly and waveringly
towards his breast, and thrust it into his coat.
She thought he was going to pull out a
revolver, and she was sliding in terror on to
her trembling knees, when Mr. Shaw's genial
voice attracted his friend's attention, and
reassured her.

Come, come, Blair, it's all right. At
least, I hope so. There's nothing like being
woke up by a noise in the night for giving
one the jumps. We'd better just make sure
that we haven't let our purses with our tickets
fall out into the mud when the door flew
open, and then pull ourselves together and
get another nap. It's only twenty past eleven ;
we have another hour and a half of it," said
he, pulling out his watch.

But even as lie spoke his face was less
cheerful than his words, and his eyes followed
carefully every movement of Blair's shaking
fingers, as they fumbled with the buttons
of his coat, and dallied nervously about
them.

'' It's all right. I  I needn't look," murmured
the white-haired man, with faltering
lips ; and he let his hand fall down to his side
again.

*' Well, yes, yes, of course it's all right.
Still, I think I'd make sure," whispered the
other earnestly.

It was impossible for the other two people
in the carriage not to have their attention
riveted, in spite of themselves, upon the
hurried words, the nervous movements, which
told them something serious was at stake.
No invalid's selfishness could have been proof
against the anguish of fear which was driving
the ruddy colour from Blair's face and causing
his limbs to shake as with palsy ; and Mr.
Beresford watched him with interest as keen
as that of sympathetic little Miss M'Leod,
who could scarcely keep her lips from begging

VOL. I. 15

the unhappy man to end suspense which had
become her own.

At last, with one quick desperate movement,
he tore open his coat, and, regardless
who saw him, drew out from his inner breast-pocket
a large dark leather pocket-book, and
opened it upon his knees. One glance told
him the worst. With a long moan, he let
his hands fall to his sides, and his white head
fell upon his breast. A shiver ran through
everyone in the compartment ; for that one
sound told a story of ruin and misery that
needed no comment.

Mr. Shaw, after a pause of utter silence in
the carriage, took the open pocket-book in his
hands ; with the exception of some visiting-cards
and an unresisted bill, it was empty.

*' The notes were in it, you are sure V said
he energetically.

At that moment, a tiny dark object fell
from one of the folds of Blair's coat on to the
crumpled rug at his feet. Mr. Shaw saw it
fall, looked for, found it, and put it in his
pocket without remark, as he waited for his
friend's answer.

** Certain ; I swear," said Blair hoarsely.

'' When did you look at them last ?"

*' At the hotel, two minutes before we
started. I counted them."

*' You have the numbers ?"

*' Yes."

** Then it's all right. We can telegraph
from the very next station to stop them."

' It's no use. The man who stole them
must be the devil himself. Why, I've never
been alone, and nobody in this country but
you and M. de Breteuil knew that I had so
much as a five-pound note about me. Do I
look like a man who would be expected to
carry about with him JC12,000 ?"

The mention of the amount caused a sensation
in the carriage. Mr. Beresford's head
twitched. Miss M'Leod uttered a cry of
horror.

'you have been followed from London
and watched," said Mr. Shaw decisively.
*' If Lord Keighley hadn't been such a confounded
doddering old idiot, he would have
given you a blank cheque."

** He wouldn't trust anybody with a blank

152

cheque ; he always gives me notes for his
commissions'

'more fool he. See the result in the
fright this has given us'

'' Fright ! By Heaven, it's ruin !"

'' No, no ; we will telegraph at Bologna.
Dictate the numbers to me  quick'

The unhappy man felt in his outer pocket
for his purse, but his face grew livid when,
on opening it, he found that the paper on
which he had written down the numbers of
the notes had disappeared. "With a cry like
a maniac, he sprang up, and would have
opened the door to fling himself out, had not
Mr. Shaw, by the muscular force of a stronger
body, held him back.

The voice of the paralytic in the corner,
weak still, but in tones so firm, so clear, as
to enforce attention, broke in upon the
struggling men.

'forgive me for making a suggestion, butin
such a terrible emergency help is the only
courtesy. I understand the notes were confided
to Mr. Blair by some one who probably
kept a copy of the numbers. In two minutes

we shall be at Vernon. Write a telegram to
him, telling your loss both of notes and
numbers, and he will be able to stop them as
quickly as you could yourselves'

The train was already slackening into vernon
as Mr. Shaw scribbled the last word of
the telegram. They called the station-master
into the compartment, and Mr. Beresford gave
him the despatch, and, coming to the assistance
of the two Englishmen with their halting
French, explained that a serious robbery had
been committed, and requested him to telegraph
along the line, and especially to Bologna
and Calais, that a look-out might
be kept for any suspicious person who
might be crossing to England that night.
The compartment had been entered while they
were all asleep, he said, and they had been
roused by the noise made by the banging of
the door, which the thief had not shut behind
him on quitting the carriage. The official,
dying to take an important position in this
affair, and to have his name mentioned in the
papers, was attentive, effusive, and fussy, and
left the compartment with the air of a person

who could lay his fingers within half an hour
upon the very man, stolen notes and all.

"But," suggested Mr. Shaw, when the
station-master had left the carriage and the
train was once more on its way, " I did not
understand you to say anything about the very
extraordinary circumstance of our all being so
soundly asleep."

Because that was a matter in which he
could not help us. We must find out that
mystery for ourselves ; but if you will follow
my directions I fancy we shall not have far to
seek."

There was dead silence in the railway-carriage
as Mr. Shaw, on Mr. Beresford's
suggestion, made a thorough search into
every corner for some clue to the means by
which they had all been stupefied before the
perpetration of the robbery. Blair sat staring
before him in stupid unthinking silence,
utterly crushed by the blow which had fallen
upon him. Miss M'Leod hopped from place
to place, as she was directed, to facilitate the
search, Hke a limp dejected bird, her dignity
for the moment forgotten. Mr. Beresford
was not satisfied when the searcher sat down,
declaring that there was nothing further for
them to discover  the rest must be left to the
police, and he wished he had a couple of
London detectives over here, instead of these

red-tape-bound French officials who couldn't
understand him.

' We must have been under the influence
of some narcotic, probably chloroform, and
there must be some trace of it about. Why,
the air is heavy with it still," said Mr*
Beresford.

But the stockbroker, who had hunted in
the net above their heads, turned over the
cushions, and peered under the seats with
matches, was hard to convince, and still
harder to silence. Therefore the crippled
gentleman set his own little detective to
work, and Miss M'Leod obediently passed
her hand along the seat until, when she got
to the other end of the carriage, she suddenly
cried : '' There is a large stain here, on the
cushion behind Mr. Blair's head. And it is
wet'*

Everyone but the cripple looked, touched,
sniffed ; the sickly odour which had overpowered
them all came from that spot, where
the light-drab cloth was stained a darker tint
for the space of some two feet square, and
even as they looked the stain was slowly

spreading. Passing his hand upwards over the
saturated surface of the cloth, while, fascinated,
the eyes of the rest followed every
movement of his fingers, Mr. Shaw felt something
hard just at the place where the
cushioned side of the carriage protrudes to
accommodate the head and hack of the
traveller. A little further examination discovered
a neat slit along the line made hy
one of the straight creases in the cloth leading
to a button. By means of this slit a flat
glass bottle had been introduced into the
stuffing of the cushion, just far enough from
the end of the carriage not to come in contact
with the head of the traveller who might sit
in the corner. Blair, roused by the discovery
from heavy apathy into furious excitement,
wanted to pull the bottle out : but Mr. Shaw
prevented this.

** We had better leave it just as it is'' said
he gravely. everything depends on finding
how, when, and by whom it was put
there. Look, the bottle has been placed on
one side, and the cork is there, only out of
the bottle. Wonder what the cork's for."

** To prevent our being overpowered too
soon after leaving Paris, I should say," broke
in Mr. Beresford. '' The cork was probably
put in so that the jolting of the train should
gradually force it out, which cannot have
happened until after we left Amiens, as we
none of us felt sleepy till then."

'' I cannot understand when the bottle can
have been introduced. It must have taken
some time, for everything has been done most
neatly ; and yet it must have been put thereafter
we had taken our seats."

' Did you leave your places before the
train started ?"

"Yes, for just enough time to go to the
buffet."

''Ah, that's it! You were watched, certainly
by more than one person, probably by
half a dozen."

'' But we got the guard to lock the door."

*' That may make the search easier;
perhaps some one may have been seen to
unlock it and enter the carriage."

"But it was still locked on our return !"

Still, it must have been during that

absence that the mischief was done, for yoa
never left the carriage again except at Amiens,
where the only person who came in was the
guard, who helped Miss M'Leod out and
stayed talking to me until she got in again."

'' The chloroform must have been introduced
while we were asleep," suggested poor
Blair.

*' If we had been too sound asleep to notice
all that hanky-panky going on with the
cushion, there would have been no need
for chloroform at all," said Mr. Shaw
decisively.

But talk as they might, and as they did,
until they got to Calais, there was no other
conclusion to come to than that the unseen
robbery which had just been committed in
their very presence was, from all points of
view, impossible ; and poor Blair, in spite
of their assurances that the telegram to Lord
Keighley would certainly reach him in time
for him to stop payment of the notes, was
scarcely sane by the time the train drew near
to Calais. He showed a dull surprise when
Mr. Shaw, on whom, in this emergency, he

leaned helplessly, expressed his intention of
adhering to his acceptance of Mr. Beresford's
invitation to 'Les Bouleaux."

** Then I will come into Calais tomorrow
and go back to Paris if necessary, and make
a regular British fuss about the matter, and
have all the officials on the line questioned,
and kick up such a deuce of a row about it
that they shall arrest somebody, if only for
the sake of getting rid of me."

'let me warn you not to set about
overturning heaven and earth without some
authority, consular or other, for here in
France it is even more unusual than in
England to get justice by force of lungs and
fists'' said Mr. Beresford quietly. 'rand if
the police wanted to get rid of you by the
arrest of somebody, they would probably shut
up you yourself on some trivial charge of disturbance
of the public peace, just long enough
for the thief to get well out of reach."

Well, well, I can't do better than act
under your advice, at any rate," said the
other good-humouredly. " And you, Blair,
must not lose a moment's time when you get

to England in going to Lord Keigliley,
wherever he may be, and insisting upon
seeing him at once, even if he is in bed."

*' If I ever reach England," said Blair, in
deepest despondency.

For one moment the blank stare of utter
hopelessness in the unhappy man's eyes
seemed to make his friend hesitate, but only
for a moment ; then he laid his hand upon
Blair's shoulder with a heartiness which made
the touch almost a blow.

** Come, pull yourself together, man. This
is not the sort of misfortune one can afford to
sit down and look at. If you will only rally
your pluck, and work as energetically on your
side of the Channel as I will on mine, we'll
have that money back and save our character
as sure as my name's what it is."

The genial heartiness of his tone did seem
to revive the old man's spirits a little, and as
the train drew into the Calais station he
began to roll up his rug with the air of a
man who entertained the possibility of his
wanting it again.

The telegraphing along the line had already

done its work ; as at Boulogne, the platforms
on both sides of the train were thronged with
men, some in police or railway uniform, some
in blouse, all somewhat evidently on the
watch. As the guard who visited each compartment
for tickets during the course of the
journey had assured Mr. Shaw, it was clear
that no person leaving the train after the
robbery was once made known could cross to
England that night without leaving a minute
description of himself or herself in the hands
of the French police. As an extra precaution
the letter-boxes in the stations of Boulogne
and Calais and their neighbourhood were
watched, and a police-officer told off at each
telegraph-office to take note of the despatches
which might be sent through them. Within
one minute of the stopping of the train, and
before any of the passengers were allowed to
descend, the guard who had travelled with
the train, accompanied by the Calais stationmaster
and a police-officer, came up to the
door of the compartment where the robbery
was alleged to have been committed, and after
the last had taken down notes of all the

circumstances from each of the four occupants
of the carriage in turn, he asked most respectfully
whether, considering the grave nature
of the loss and the exceptionally puzzling
character of the whole occurrence, they would
one and all submit to he searched, the gentlemen
where they sat and in his presence, the
lady in the hotel attached to the station, hy
two respectable women who were there awaiting
his orders.

Mr. Shaw was the only one of the four who
objected to this infringement of the rights of a
British subject, even Miss M'Leod's dignity
being overawed by a sense of the strong
necessities of the case. But on the officers
politely putting it to his good sense and
good feeling whether it became the first man
who clamoured for investigation to be the
first to object to it, and pointing out that
even Mr. Beresford, an invalid and a well-known
and respected inhabitant of the neighbourhood,
was ready to undergo the ordeal,
he too submitted. Miss M'Leod was then
allowed to leave the carriage, and conducted
by a very courteous gentleman with a fierce

black moustache, who might well have been
a friend come to meet her, though he was
really a policeman in plain clothes, to a room
in the Hotel de la Gare, at the door of which
two respectable-looking women received her
and led her in.

The rest of the passengers were then
allowed to leave the train, and the guard
having quitted the suspected compartment, a
second policeman got in, and the three travellers
submitted to a thorough and exhaustive
search of their property and their persons
in the presence of the station-master. The
very lining of their hats and boots was
examined, the soles and heels of the latter
cut into, not a stitch or a button left unnoticed.
As for the personal luggage they
had with them in the compartment, both
Mr. Shaw and Mr. Beresford offered to leave
theirs until the morning, as the carriage was
to be locked and guarded for the night.
Shaw's rug and bag were given back to him
after examination, and the three then descended
to the platform, where they found old
Pierre, to whom rumours of an accident had

brought visions of his master's death and his
own consequent descent to the pauperism
from which Mr. Beresford's freak had Hated
him.

The three gentlemen proceeded straight to
the buffet of the Hotel de la Gare, where
poor old Blair, but for the restraining influence
of his friend, would have refreshed
himself to the point of forgetting not only his
loss, but the journey he had still before him.
In very few minutes, with the elasticity of
the born adventurer, he had revived sufficiently
to take stock, according to his habit,
of the people around him ; and perceiving at
a table near him a very beautiful woman,
attended by a neat-looking maid, he instinctively
drew himself together, cocked his hat,
and twirled his white moustache, with happy
indifference as to which of the two his bearing
should impress.

*' Deuced fine-looking woman that!" said
he, with a tone and look which recalled caricatures
of the *' old bucks " of the Regency.

*eyes, very handsome," assented his less
susceptible friend, with a glance at the lady

VOL. I. 16

which took in more than the beauty which
had attracted the other.

Mr. Beresford, sitting on a chair behind
them-was looking in the same direction.
Noticing this, Blair thought his own comment
worth repeating to him.

*' Yes," he answered. ** And, if I am not
very much mistaken, she is a woman whom
I had pointed out to me in Paris some years
ago, when she was, I fancy, in not quite the
same circumstances as she appears to be at
present."

Scenting a scandal, Blair drew nearer ;
but he was disappointed. For Pierre came
doddering up at that moment, to tell his
master that the carriole was waiting outside
the station ; and Mr. Beresford, with an
apology for offering his left hand to Blair,
and with kind expressions of hope that the
lost money would soon be recovered, left the
buffet on his servant's arm, begging Mr.
Shaw not to hurry his leave-taking with his
friend, as he himself should be a long time
making his slow way to the carriage. He
had scarcely left the buffet, when Gerald

Staunton came in from the opposite door,
which led to the interior of the hotel, accompanied
by Miss M'Leod, who had just been
through the ordeal of being searched. He
walked straight up to the lady who had been
the object of so much admiration, watched by
the two Englishmen.

** Mr. Beresford has arrived, madame,"
said he in English. '' That is the housekeeper,
as I thought. She is too shy to
come up and speak to you."

Madame de Lancry had been waiting with
Gerald for the arrival of Mr. Beresford, whom
she was anxious to see. The young fellow
had left her on catching sight of Miss M'Leod,
as she was conducted through the room into
the hotel ; and when the latter reappeared
after the search she gave him full details
of the robbery which had taken place in the
train. Gerald had scarcely banished giving a
rough outline of the occurrence to Madame de
Lancry, when, meeting the eyes of Mr. Shaw
fixed full upon him, he started, hesitated, and
then, making a step forward as the elder man
did the same, found his hand grasped with a

162

warmth of greeting he had not known for
years.

''Mr. Shawls' *' Gerald, my boy!" said
they at the same moment, and wrung each
other's hands a second time without more
words. Gerald's father and Mr. Shaw had
been firm friends for many years, and the
latter had been the very last to yield to the
universal belief in Staunton's guilt : that he
had yielded to it at last, Gerald knew ; and
the knowledge sent a shaft of reproach from
his mild brown eyes.

' Why have you buried yourself away from
us all so long ? It was not kind of you,
Gerald. Don't you want to see old England
again ?"

*you know why I came to France, Mr.
Shaw. I said then that I would never return
to England until I had cleared my father's
name. For the last year I have almost given
up hope of ever doing either the one or the
other, until  until to-night." And the young
fellow, who was much excited, glanced with
passionate gratitude, which could not fail to
strike Mr. Shaw's attention, at the beautiful

lady, who was still sitting at the table beside
which he had been standing when he caught
sight of his old friend.

Both gentlemen noticed with surprise that
a great change had passed over her during
their brief greetings, that her statuesque face
was now lit up with excitement, and that a
strange fire burned in her long eyes, as she
looked rapidly from the one to the other, rose
in haste from her seat, and put her hand on
Gerald's shoulder.

"I want you to introduce your friend tome,"
said she imperatively.

The young fellow was so much startled by
her abrupt and unexpected vehemence, that
for one moment he hesitated. Her hand, still
on his shoulder, moved impatiently.

'* Your father  think of your father," she
whispered quickly. *' I can help you better,
faster, by knowing your father's friend."

Mr. Shaw," said he, '' Madame de Lancry
wishes me to introduce you to her. She has
been kind enough "

But the lady was too impatient to stand
upon ceremony ; she had held out her hand

at the first mention of her name, and cut
Gerald short by saying, '' I am very sorry to
hear that you have been the victim of a
serious robbery. I sincerely trust that the
thieves will soon be discovered."

You are very kind. I sincerely trust so
too, though it is not I, but my friend, who is
the victim."

Indeed !" said Madame de Lancry, whose
interest in the robbery seemed hardly as strong
as her words about it.

' Yes," said Mr. Shaw, who did not mind
a careless listener, provided he was left to
talk uninterruptedly. ' A most extraordinary
thing  in fact, a most mysterious affair. My
friend goes to Paris, charged with a commission
from an English nobleman to buy a
certain picture, said to be a masterpiece,
at the sale of a Parisian millionnaire. He
carries with him a very large sum of money ;
but, discovering the painting to be a mere
copy, he starts on his journey back to England,
with the money still in his keeping 
about his person, in fact. He and all the
rest of the occupants of the compartment in

which he travels are, by the most mysterious
means, put under the influence of a narcotic ;
and, on being awakened by the slamming of
one of the doors of the carriage, he wakes to
find his money gone."

To all this narration, the greater part of
which she had already heard from Gerald,
Madame de Lancry listened with boredom
which she scarcely took the pains to hide ;
but his concluding sentence suddenly changed
her impatient indifference into fiery interest.

*' The strangest thing of all," prosed on
Mr. Shaw, whose rapid and monotonous
utterance made even the story of a new and
sensational robbery unattractive, "is that the
only persons who knew what a large sum my
poor friend had about him were Lord Keighley,
myself, and the possessor of the picture, M.
de Breteuil."

*' M. de Breteuil !" she echoed, in quite a
low voice, but with excited breathlessness,
which made both gentlemen look at her curiously.
" He knew, you say ?"

Yes, I believe that he knew. But what
difference can that make ?"

She did not answer ; the flash of vivid
interest in her face settled into a glow of excitement
so steady, so tigerish, that Mr. Shaw
decided, as he noticed the hungry look of her
crimson lips parted over closed teeth, the
quivering delicate nostrils and dilated eyes,
that she was a dangerous woman whose apparent
interest in Gerald was much to be regretted.
He had, however, for the moment
forgotten all about Blair and Mr. Beresford in
the interest this strangely capricious woman
undoubtedly excited in him, when the prim
and rather disgusted voice of Miss M'Leod at
his elbow recalled him to remembrance of the
discourtesy he was guilty of in keeping his
host so long waiting.

** Mr. Beresford has begged me not on any
account to hurry you, Mr. Shaw, but only to
ask "

I beg a thousand pardons," said he
hastily ; and turning to the other lady,
*' Madame, I am very grateful to you for
your kind interest in the son of an old friend
of mine ; I Jiope you will persuade him to
return to his friends in Pendant."

He bowed and was about to take his leave
of her, when she said quickly, holding out her
hand and detaining him with a strong nervous
pressure, *you are not crossing to-night?
You are staying here ?'*

'' Yes. Gerald's friend, Mr. Beresford, has
most kindly offered me an opportunity of
renewing my acquaintance with the boy'

'' iVh !" she cried shortly, and then turned
to the young man. ** Mr. Beresford's chateau
is quite close to Calais, I think you told me,
Gerald ?"

*' Yes, madame. ' Les Bouleaux ' is about
three miles off'*

She turned again impulsively to Mr.
Shaw, whose hand she still held.

Will you do me the favour of coming to
see me tomorrow ? I am staying in the
hotel here with my husband; he is in ill-health,
but he will be most happy to see
you." She had gradually moved a few steps,
so that, as if on her way to leave the room,
she stood between Mr. Shaw and the rest of
the group. She looked earnestly into his
face, as she added in a voice only loud

enough for him to hear, * Come without
fail, at whatever time you please, but without
fail. I don't know how your friend's money
was taken, but I know who took it." Mr.
Shaw started. She hurried on still more
impressively, *' I know more than that. I
can give you the clue to the mystery about
Mr. Staunton's disappearance : I can, I
swear it."

'But, madame, I  I "

*you cannot understand these rash and
apparently wild confidences to a stranger,
perhaps ? But I know the world, and I can
trust your face, as  as I could  and did that
of your dead friend Staunton."

dead!"

"Yes, dead. The people are leaving the
room for the boat," she continued, as a burly
excited Englishman, turning to hurry up his
wife and two children, backed into her on his
way to the door. " And your poor friend is
looking at you anxiously. I must not say
any more to you now. Don't mistrust me
because my face is no longer candid, but for
Gerald's sake come and see me to-morrow'*

She let his hand go, and detained Gerald
for one moment as the two older men and
the rigid little housekeeper went out.

''I saw your Mr. Beresford ; he came in
just now while you were looking for Miss
M'Leod," she said, with her hand laid
affectionately upon his arm. *' I knew him
at once from your description, and I studied
his appearance as closely as I could*'

*' Well, and what did you think of him,
madame ? Hasn't he a good, wise face ?"

*' Yes, wise certainly, and good in the
sense of blameless. But I am disappointed
in him, Gerald ; he looks cold, and too
prudent and unenthusiastic to work very hard
to right another man's wrong. I hope more
from your other friend, Mr. Shaw : you must
persuade him, if he needs persuasion, to come
and see me tomorrow."

* And you will tell him  all you say you
know about my father's disappearance ? Oh,
madame, why will you not tell me ?"

** My boy, believe me, I am doing the
best for you. You may trust me as you
trust yourself. I dare not tell you yet more

than I have told you  that the instinct which
makes you believe your father was murdered
is, I have reason to think, a right one. I
know very Httle more myself, but I will
never rest until I do know more, and when I
can put you fairly on the track I will. Do
you believe me  trust me ?"

The beauty of her face was no longer
listless and languid ; it was noble, inspired,
though the inspiration was perhaps not all of
heaven. Gerald pressed the hand she gave
him without answering except by a look of
unutterable gratitude, and watched her with
ees alight with the fire of reawakened hope,
as, followed by her maid, she pressed through
the now hurrying crowd of travellers towards
her room. When she had disappeared he
remembered suddenly that the carriole was
waiting for him, and, running out of the
room and through the station, he found that
Mr. Beresford and Miss M'Leod and old
Pierre were already seated in the interior of
the vehicle, and that Mr. Shaw was standing
beside the fat horse, waiting for him, and
examining with some curiosity the homely-looking

two-wheeled carriage, in shape like a
covered market-cart, which is so popular in
the country in Northern France.

From out of the black depths of the
carriole Mr. Beresford's voice, not in his
philosophical, but in his querulous tones,
grumbled at Gerald's long absence ; and the
young fellow sprang up on to the front seat
and helped Mr. Shaw to take his place beside
him with impulsive energy unusual to his
gentle nature. And he whipped up the old
horse till the stone-paved streets of Calais
rang with the clatter of wheels and hoofs,
and as they crossed the moat for the second
time at the other side of the town, going
slowly over the wooden drawbridge, he turned
to his companion, and said in a low voice,
** Shall I drive you into Calais when I come
to business tomorrow morning, Mr. Shaw ?"

'swell, I doubt whether I should be able
to see Madame de Lancry so early in the
day ; I should hardly like to venture, in spite
of what she said' he answered, in his usual
voice. *'I will call upon her later, on my
way to the train."

Gerald looked disappointed ; but not liking
to make any objection, lie drove on in silence
until they had quitted the stone-paved road
that led into Saint-Pierre, and, turning to the
left, were jogging quietly along the sandy,
monotonous road towards '' Les Bouleaux/'
A very dreary drive it was at all times, and
on this cold March night, with a drizzling
rain falling, a cutting east wind driving
straight into their faces, and thoughts of
robbery, of murder, and of a ruined and
desperate man now crossing the rough sea,
made both the travellers on the front seat of
the carriole gloomy and anxious.

'' What's the matter, Gerald ?" asked the
elder man, noticing that his companion stared
with strange intentness at a little thicket of
stunted straggling trees which they were approaching,
on the left-hand side of the road.
Mr. Shaw's eyesight was keen enough, yet he
saw nothing either interesting or alarming in
the confusion of bare twigs and branches
which the weak moonlight showed him.

* Oh, we're all as nervous as cats about
here just now," answered the young fellow,

trying to laugh. '' There have been a lot of
small robberies committed in the neighbourhood
during the winter, and this affair in the
train I've just heard about has given me a
bad attack of the bogey-fever  that's all."

Mr. Shaw shivered. He was not in the
least superstitious, and he feared both death
and danger as little as most men ; yet, as
they drove on again in silence through the
cold night air and the rainy mist, even the
strong belief that was upon him that he was
on the right road towards helping two friends
out of their difficulties could not stifle a
sudden and unaccountable feeling that this
visit to *' Les Bouleaux " would bring misfortune
to somebody.

CHAPTER I.

The midnight drive from Calais to *' Les
Bouleaux " began to seem never-ending to
the occupants of the carriole ; they were all
absorbed in such gloomy thoughts that there
was a general sense of relief when Mr. Beresford
lifted up his voice rather testily to complain
that Gerald had scarcely spoken to him,
and had told him none of the domestic news.
*' Don't be disgusted, Mr. Shaw, if I seem
more deeply interested in the health of the
pigs and the laying of the hens than in the
political crisis. In a town I am a very
staunch Republican, I assure you. But in
the country it is so much less important that

VOL. II. 17

one should have a Government than that one
should have new-laid eggs. In the country
alone, thank Heaven ! one can ask for news
and hear that there is none."

' Oh, hut there is, this time, Mr. Beresford
; I  I had forgotten," stammered Gerald.
'your daughter  Miss Beresford  has come;
she came yesterday."

''My daughter!" cried Mr. Beresford, in
astonishment, while Miss M'Leod uttered a
little cry expressive of annoyance rather than
any other feeling. " Why did you not tell
me before ?"

'' I  I had forgotten," said Gerald again.

This was not quite true, but he could
scarcely explain that he had found a difficulty
he could not account for in introducing the
young lady's name.

She can't have produced a very strong
impression, I am afraid. What is she like ?
I have not seen her since she was in short
frocks. Come, be candid ; for I don't wish to
be disappointed."

Oh, you will not be. Miss Beresford is
very beautiful," said Gerald, not with enthusiasm,

but in the manner of a cold and conscientious
reporter.

' All !" said Mr. Beresford, as if relieved.
'' Have the Fourniers seen her yet T'

**I think not, sir. She came yesterday
evening, and I drove back to Calais to tell
Madame Fournier of her arrival, and I spent
the night at their house. But as madame
could not come out of town to-day, and the
telegram had reached us with the news
that you would return to-night, she said
she would wait for you to introduce your
daughter."

"Yes, yes, I see. Is the girl lively and
entertaining ? But I suppose you saw
scarcely anything of her."

*' And were too shy to notice anything
about her ? I know you, Gerald," put in
Mr. Shaw. *' Are you still as much of a
woman-hater as when my tomboy daughter
Adela used to lock you into the summer-house
for saying you would never marry ?"

I don't hate women at all, Mr. Shaw,
but I don't see many at ' Les Bouleaux,' and
I don't wish to see any more."

172

*' May you always be in as healthy a state
of maid, my boy !" said Mr. Shaw.

Mr. Beresford laughed, if the short dried-up
chuckle he uttered when his cynicism was
tickled could be called a laugh. Miss
M'Leod was heard in the darkness to rustle
with indignation at the offensive pleasantry.
Gerald's face tingled through the feeling that
he had not succeeded in being quite honest in
his last speech. He knew that he had given
the impression that he hated Miss Beresford,
or at least that he didn't want to see anymore
of her ; whereas he really liked her very
much, and had been thinking all day how
much jollier ' Les Bouleaux " would be now,
until she threw herself away on that.
bumptious flighty Victor, who was a good
fellow enough in his way, but not half good
enough for such a dear, nice, jolly girl as she
was. So he held his tongue until they passed
through the open white gate into the long poplar
avenue, and the thud of the horse's hoofs fell
softly on the sandy road, and the tall bare trees
cracked and swung over their heads in the wind.

' Here we are!" said he then to Mr.

Shaw, who looked out before him, but was at
first not particularly impressed, as not one
glimmer of light from the house shone
through the poplar branches to relieve the
blank blackness.

It was not until they had reached the end
of the avenue and gone through the second
white gate into the paved courtyard that the
house appeared dark and square on their right
hand, and the unostentatious door which did
not look in the least like a front door was
thrown open, and two or three rustic figures
clattered out in wooden shoes and noisily
greeted the returning master. The oil-lamp
which threw its feeble light on to the
carriole through the small semicircular window
over the hall-door showed the rosy and
robust Delphine, who found her existence of
scouring and scrubbing so delightful that she
passed it in song like an operatic heroine,
with intervals like the present of broadly
smiling recitative. She was in her usual
costume of short blue gown, loose jacket tied
in round her waist with the string of her
apron, and white frilled cap tied under the

chin. Marie the cook, a handsome Fleming
of two or three and thirty, whose superior
position entitled her to wear a print gown
of the lilac tint and baggy make favoured
by the British housemaid of ten years ago,
smiled a hearty welcome at her side. An
old red-eyed retriever, with a ragged coat
in colour like a door-mat of bygone times,
slunk up from the stable-yard to sniff round
the heels of his master as he descended from
the carriole, and to leap up on his shoulders
and lick his face with demonstrative fondness
as Mr. Beresford drew his paralysed leg slowly
to the ground. At the back of the group
stood Henri the coachman, an old retainer
whose only fault was that he had now grown
so fat that except on occasions of state and
ceremony his weight and the large space he
filled in the carriage obliged him to be left at
home : his round light eyes, which looked
like pale marbles, were fixed on his master's
stooping figure with steadiness which meant,
what they could not express, that he was
glad to see him back again. The dog barked
and the rustic retinue loudly murmured such a

chorus of unaffected welcome that Mr. Shaw's
spirits recovered from their depression as
Delphine, who was as muscular as she was
merry, caught sight of him, cried out enthusiastically,
'* Encore un monsieur!" and almost
lifted him to the ground. Then she gave a
hearty slap on the back to Gerald, and, in a
confidential whisper, which Mr. Shaw half
heard and wholly misinterpreted, told the
young gentleman that the day had been long
without him to somebody. And on Mr.
Shaw's ears, as he followed his host into the
house, fell words of haughty animosity in
scarcely intelligible patois, between the two
deadly enemies, whose ambushes with pails of
water and attacks with blacking-brushes kept
the quiet household in perpetual ferment when
Mr. Beresford was at " Les Bouleaux :" these
were the two men-servants, fat Henri and thin
Pierre, whose rivalry in their master's esteem
was a fierce torrent which nothing could stem.
As the gentlemen entered the tiled hall,
which was quite bare with the exception
of a strip of matting from end to end, an
umbrella-stand, and some hat-pegs, a door

immediately facing the front door opened, and
a pale little lady in a black stuff gown, looking
as insignificant as only pale little women in
mourning can look, appeared at the opening.
The expression of her face was both sullen and
woe-begone, and she stared straight at Mr.
Beresford with black eyes which almost
said : ' This is even worse than I expected."


If she was disappointed in her father, he
was still more disappointed in his daughter ;
he walked past her into the first salon 
sat down in the straight-backed carved armchair
by the stove, and after telling Marie to
show Mr. Shaw to the spare room, said,
without turning to his daughter, ' Come
here."

She crossed the polished floor obediently
and stood before him like a child who has
been scolded and who doesn't mean to be
good.

What is your name ?"

'' My name !"

** Yes. Your Christian name, of course.
I have forgotten it."

*' Peggy ; at least  Margaret."

Peggy-at-least-Margaret !"

I believe it was by your wish that I was
christened Margaret, so mamma always called
me Peggy."

Then in future you will be Margaret 
you understand ?"

' Yes."

The tone was sullenly docile, but if he had
looked up at that moment he would have
seen on the little white face, with its delicately
aquiline features and tiny curled mouth, an
expression of elfin malignity which would
have entirely justified his philosophical lack
of paternal tenderness.

'' You know why I sent for you ?"

'* Yes ; to marry me to some one."

' Yes." A pause. ' I thought you would
be more  more like your mother. She was
a very handsome woman."

** She was always complaining that I was
more  more like you."

The gray head was slowly raised, and the
girl trembled a little with sudden recognition
of her own boldness as her black eyes met the

steady gaze of the grave old man. He did
not look angry and he did not look amused ;
but her audacity evidently gave her some
sort of standing in his eyes, and his tone
when he next addressed her was less curt,
though no warmer than before.

'' I am afraid you have suffered, from the
unfortunate incompatibility of your parent's
temper, Margaret. And perhaps it was your
unlucky likeness to your father which prevented
your mother from doing her best for
you."

She couldn't make me beautiful, if that
is what you mean."

*but she might have taught you to dress
better, and to hold yourself better. I don't
mean to be unkind, but your appearance
suggests rather a post-ofl&ce clerk, or a paid
companion, than  than Miss Beresford."

Well, that is what Miss Beresford would
have had to be, if you had not sent for her
to fill a position for which she is far less
suited."

'I don't know about 'far less suited.'
You can make answers which are smart, even

if they are rather rude. And I suppose you
could dress well and look well if you had
money, and knew where to spend it. You
look rather handsome, too, now that you are
indignant, and marriage would give you plenty
of opportunities for that. How did your mother
spend her allowance ? On dress for herself, I
suppose ?"

Yes, partly. The allowance wasn't
handsome enough for us both to dress well,
while, for the sake of what shifting position
we had, it was better that one at least shouldn't
look quite like a rag-picker."

'you are rather daring in your similes,
for a lady."

' A lady who has to wander about the
world as I have done becomes daring in more
things than similes."

She looked like a little Amazon by this
time, and no bearing could have been more
erect than hers as she drew herself up, and
gradually raised a rather graceful little head
to an angle expressive of open defiance.

*snow, if you would always carry your
head like that you would be all right," said

her father persuasively, quite ignoring the
defiance. *'Do try, there's a good child, and
open that door and see if there is anything to
eat on the table."

She obeyed rather awkwardly, feeling that
the boiling excitement to which she had
raised herself during their short conversation
should have been used for better things thana
mere summons to supper. As she opened
the door of the salle-danger, Miss M'Leod,
too evidently retreating from the keyhole, met
her and looked at her with a disagreeable
expression of mingled jealousy and contempt.
A dear good little woman she was, this pocket-sized
housekeeper, with principles so very high
that now and then they could not be brought
down to the vulgar level of daily life, and so
they got lost sight of for a time.

'' Is Mr. Beresford ready for supper ?" she
asked, with the double-distilled haughtiness
of a great personage caught in an evil deed.

Without waiting for an answer, she swept
past the young girl, and re-entered the 
with the crippled gentleman leaning
on her arm, just as the door from the hall

opened, and Mr. Shaw and Gerald came in,
both laughing.

** Pierre and Henri are at it again already,"
said Gerald, as he took his seat at the table.

'what's the matter now ?"

Henri has discovered a mystery, and
Pierre won't believe in it. So they are exhausting
their powers of invective at the
bottom of the staircase. Neither of them
would be alive tomorrow morning if they
dared fight; but Henri aren't hit out because
he can't run, and Pierre can't see where to
hit at all. But the faculty of speech is only
too well preserved in both of them."

'' What is it all about ?"

'soh, Henri declares that a bolt has been
placed on one of the kitchen-doors within the
last twenty-four hours, that it has been placed
there for some nefarious purpose, and that the
person who placed it there is Monnier, the
head game-keeper."

Everybody laughed. The allegation was
mild compared to some of the tales of poison
and sorcery with which at different times
Henri had sought to compass his rival's ruin.

Monnier ! not Pierre!" exclaimed Mr.
Beresford, in astonishment.

** Well, you see, Pierre hasn't been in the
house five minutes, while the bolt has been
on the door some hours. Even Henri's
brilliant imagination couldn't get over that
difficulty."

'what bolt is it ? And why is poor eld
Monnier dragged into the story ?"

'henri's tale is that this afternoon, while
both the women were upstairs, he was in his
own room next to the stable, when he saw
Monnier cross the end of the yard, and go
round towards the back door. Knowing that
it was the time when there would be nobody
downstairs, he went out to tell Monnier so,
expecting to find him vainly knocking. But
instead of that he looked through the scullery
window, and saw Monnier open the door
leading into the kitchen. Monnier just
nodded to him, and he went back to the
stable ; but when he came in to fetch his tea
he declares that he discovered a new and unaccountable
bolt on the kitchen-door."

What an old fool it is !" said Mr. Beresford.

** I shall have to send him and Pierre
about their business together."

*' Oh, don't do that !" said the kind-hearted
housekeeper.

'' My dear lady, isn't one decrepit old man
in the house enough, without a doddering
retinue of chattering old mystery-mongers,
who haven't his one virtue of occasional
silence ?"

She bowed her head quite meekly; and
Gerald went on :

"I really think, though, sir, that for the
first time in his life Henri may have blundered
upon something worth investigating."

Not having yet recovered from the shock of
the robbery in the train, they all, with the
exception of Miss Beresford, who had not
heard of the affair, turned towards him with
a morbid feeling of being prepared for
horrors. He laughed somewhat uneasily, ashe
looked round at their faces, all expressing
a sentiment from which he himself was not
free.

'rit is nothing very dreadful  at least, I
hope not," he said, lowering his voice.

*' But from one or two little things, which I
will tell you about presently, I can't help
fancying Monnier knows something about
the robberies which have taken place here
lately."

My dear fellow, be careful what you
say," said Mr. Beresford.

Everybody was getting excited. Miss
Beresford, who was sitting by Gerald, but
of whom he had throughout the meal taken
no notice, looked like an elf under a mushroom,
as she leaned over the table to get a
clear view of the speaker's face, crouching on
her elbow, with wide-open black eyes, her
pouting red lips parted, and her black hair
and eyebrows giving intensity to the eager
expression of her white face. Mr. Shaw,
who got unhappy if he was left long out of a
conversation, had his mouth open, ready to
drop in, on the first chance, with a monologue.
Miss M'Leod tried not to look
frightened, but glanced at the clock, and
wished they wouldn't talk about this sort of
thing so near bed-time. But Mr. Beresford
insisted on hearing Gerald out.

*' I wouldn't say such a thing without
some proof, sir," said the latter, in a low
voice. ' But I know there has been a
stranger about Monnier's cottage lately, for
I've seen him there myself; and last night
I found little Jules Benoit hiding under a
bush, calling out : ' Oh, M. Monnier, I won't
tell! And I didn't see anything, indeed!'
Of course, these things don't prove anything ;
but they seem a little suspicious when there's
robbery going on, don't they ?"

'sand do you think he committed the
robbery in the train ?" panted Miss M'Leod,
in a whisper.

'What robbery? When?" hissed out
Miss Beresford, in the same key.

But the gentlemen were too preoccupied
to answer them.

*' Go on, Gerald," said Mr. Beresford
briefly. " When did you see the man at
Monnier's ? What was he like ?"

"He was tall, and slim, and dark. I
thought at first it was Victor come to spoon
Babette."

These words had scarcely slipped out of

VOL. II. 18

his mouth when he heartily repented his indiscretion,
as a sudden movement of the girl
by his side attracted his attention to her, and
he saw a swift look of anger and shame passover
her face.

'' He looked like a gentleman, then ?" said
Mr. Beresford, surprised.

'' From the little I saw of him  yes."
*' How many times have you seen him T'
' Only once : last Wednesday week  the
day Dupont was robbed."

Mr. Beresford considered a moment ; then
he said : ' Gerald, would you mind sending
Pierre up to my room and the rest to bed ?
Keep Marie back a minute, and ask her about
the bolt : her brain is not made of cotton-wool,
like the others."

Gerald obeyed. One of the doors of the
salle-danger opened into a passage which
led from the hall to the servants' offices,
which were on the same modest scale as the
rest of the little country house. Having dismissed
the rest of the servants, elicited from
Marie the confession that she really could not
say whether the bolt Henri had pointed out

was there before or not, and sent her after
the others, Gerald went through the kitchen
into the large roughly-paved scullery beyond,
and, by the light of the lamp, had just discovered
a tiny bolt, fixed at the very top of
the door, when the sound of a man's footsteps
made him start. It was Mr. Shaw, who
came whispering and sliding round the door
from the kitchen. Gerald pointed to the
bolt, and said nobody remembered whether it
had been there before to-day or not ; while
the elder man fetched a wooden chair, and by
the help of the lamp examined the bolt
thoroughly.

*sit is an old bolt," said he, ' but it has
been recently put on."

* Well, , what does it mean ?" asked Gerald,
struck by the solemnity of the tone of his old
friend.

It means that there is something wrong
with your old friend Monnier, my boy, and it
looks as if he intended using Mr. Beresford's
scullery either as a refuge or a rendezvous,
and that this little bolt was put here to prevent
any of the inmates of the house from

182

mess.

disturbing him or his ' pals ' without warning.
Mr. Beresford thinks the same, and recommends
you to leave the bolt, but to take
away the catch, so that any intruder wishing
to make himself secure may draw the bolt
without noticing that there is nothing to
hold it."

With a knife Gerald took out the screws,
feeling rather glad for once of the torrent of
talk with which his old friend whiled away
the time sent in this cold bare outhouse,
where the noise of gnawing rats was heard
under the stones, and the lamp, which Mr.
Shaw talked too fast to notice, smoked, and
flared, and made ugly flickering shadows on
the whitewashed walls. Mr. Shaw was a
man of strong sense, but of almost equally
strong prejudices, and he made full use of the
opportunity this eventful visit to France
afforded of comparing the insecurity of property
under a Republic with the ease and peace of
mind he enjoyed in his own home in loyal
Streatham.

** Don't talk to me of liberty and fraternity
and equality'' he said, glaring angrily up at

Gerald's coat-sleeve, as the young fellow
twisted out the screws. ** Give me a country
where any rascal isn't at liberty to help himself
to the contents of my pockets, and to
walk in and out of my back door as an equal,
and help himself to the contents of my
brotherly larder. In Streatham, thanks to
the Queen," Mr. Shaw was in too great a
hurry to be severely logical, *' I can go into
my scullery at any time I like, without fear
of meeting anything more alarming than a
black beetle or a burglar, neither of whom has
the right to resent my appearance. But here,
good Lord ! I suppose if poor Beresford were
to come upon a couple of his free-handed
equals regaling themselves on his cold mutton,
or hiding under the sink a few thousand
pounds' worth of property which we in England
should call stolen, they'd think nothing
of blowing out their intrusive brother's
brains."

Gerald laughed as he pulled out the last
screw and came down from the wooden chair,
and Mr. Shaw took him by the arm and continued
more seriously : ** You must come back

to England, Gerald, where, at least, if there
are some rogues about, they are not considered
the equals of honest men. I was very glad
to see there was nothing to attract you about
that little pale nonentity of a girl : it was
rather wicked of you to tell her father she
was beautiful ; even the 'prentice of olden
times would hardly have steeped himself in
such flattery as that." Gerald fidgeted, but
said nothing. '* However, we'll find you a
good berth either in my office or a better one,
and you shall find a good wife in your own
country  handsome too, don't be afraid, for
I'm not so sure after all that the ugly ones
are always the best''

He turned away and walked round the
great bare echoing outhouse as he talked, and
it was not until the end of a speech which
contained much shrewd but rather obvious
moralising on the advantages and disadvantages
of beauty in women that he found, on
returning to the kitchen-door, that Gerald
had slipped through it. Attracted by the
Bound of a closing door, Mr. Shaw followed
him through the kitchen, the sound of his footsteps

being deadened, as Gerald's had been,
by the piece of matting which was laid across
the stone-paved floor. Hearing a girl's voice
in the passage, he stopped short and took the
liberty of eavesdropping.

*' Who's Babette ?" said the girl's voice
sharply, though in a low tone.

*' Oh, nobody  at least, nobody bijou need
mind," answered Gerald, in a voice quite
different from that he had used to Mr. Shaw.
'* Look here, I've brought you the chocolate,
but somebody put a beastly heavy bag right
down upon them in the carriole, and they're
all squashed up."

They both laughed in subdued tones, and
the girl said '' Thank you," as if taking
something.

I did so wish you were here to-day," she
continued softly. ''I had such a lovely breezy
walk down by the sea, and saw a lot of
rabbits popping in and out of their holes.
It's a beautiful place  if it wasn't for my
father ; I don't like him at all."

*hush! you mustn't say that  it isn't
right."

'' Be quiet ; I won't hear you say such
things. Now go upstairs : I hear your father
moving ; he is coming out'

'' I'm afraid to go upstairs, when they've
been talking like that about robberies and
things; you don't know how it frightens
me."

'' Don't be silly. Go, they're coming.
Good-night, good-night."

Mr. Shaw heard a light tread upon the
uncarpeted polished stairs, and he entered the
passage just as the girl's black skirt was disappearing
at the turn of the staircase, and
Mr. Beresford, leaning on the housekeeper's
arm, opened the door of the salle-danger.

'well, have you taken the bolt off ?" said
Mr. Beresford to Gerald, who was still standing
at the foot of the stairs.

'' Yes, sir."

"I have been telling Mr. Beresford,"
broke in the housekeeper's wiry precise little
voice, '* that it is my firm opinion that the
robbery in the train was committed by the
same persons who have been making this

neighbourhood the scene of then depredations'


This opinion, though it has certainly not
much proof, is scarcely reassuring to quiet
country folk living two miles and a half from
the police-station," said Mr. Beresford rather
gloomily.

Mr. Shaw, who looked as grave as he,
hesitated for a few seconds before speaking,
which was a most unusual circumstance with
him ; then he said very quietly :

''If Miss M'Leod should prove to have
made a good guess, I don't think our fears
about the safety of ' Les Bouleaux ' need
be of long duration. For I have a clue to
the perpetrators of the robbery in the train
which, though of no value in my hands,
will in the hands of the police as surely
lead to the discovery of the person who
actually took the notes from Blair's pocket
as if the thief was already branded with
the crime."

'what what is it? Why didn't you
give it to the police at Calais ?"

I shan't trust to them ; I am going to

Paris to see the head of the police department."


"You are very wise," said Mr. Beresford,
with more respect than he had hitherto felt
towards the talkative Englishman. *' But
take my advice ; put yourself under police
protection for the journey, in case your
appearance on the line again should be
watched for. And now good-night, for I
think, though you are a strong man, and I
am only a weak one, you must be nearly as
much fatigued as I am. I heartily wish you
a good night's rest."

And they all went upstairs and separated
for the night. Miss M'Leod had given up
her own room to the visitor, as it was larger
and more comfortable than the spare room.
But no comfort, no luxury could have made
Mr. Shaw sleep that night. Thoughts of his
old friend Staunton, of that friend's unlucky
son, and of the unfortunate Blair, kept him
tossing through the remaining hours of darkness.


'* I wish I hadn't come here at all," he
thought to himself, as the gray of a dull

morning began to glimmer through the blinds.
*' I wish I'd gone straight back to Paris, and
seen poor Blair out of his difficulties, before
thinking about Gerald. I could have got
more rest in the train than here. I couldn't
feel less like sleeping if it were my last night
on earth."

On the morning after the robbery in the train,
dawn broke very cold and gray over *' Les
Bouleaux." It was the end of March, but
the north-east winds were still keen, and they
cut straight along the barren sandy coast, and
altered the shape of the sand-dunes, sweeping
beautiful smooth surfaces on the sides of some,
till they looked like frozen waterfalls, filling
up hollows at the foot of others, and bearing
gritty blinding little clouds along to choke up
what scrubby vegetation the winter had spared.
The poplars and birches that grew thickly
round the house and garden swayed and
cracked drearily, as if tired out under the
efforts of the blast, which had already kept
them in violent motion some hours, when Mr.
Shaw, after a short sleep which refreshed him

but little, pulled aside one of the neat muslin
blinds of the window nearest to the centre of
the house, and looked out.

Father a pretty garden it was in summer,
with a very undulating little lawn surrounded
by tall trees, and sloping down to a small
and rather ill-kept pool, where gold-fish were
supposed to live. But whenever it rained at
all heavily, those unintelligent pets used to
make off into a little stream which any rise in
the waters brought over a depression in the
path ; and a day or two later, their dead
bodies would float back into the untidy fringe
of grass and rush and weed that bordered the
little pool.

On the sandy path that skirted the lawn at
the other end of the garden, Mr. Shaw saw a
small black figure walking slowly along, with
face upturned to watch the cracking poplar-branches
above her head, and with a certain
air of obstinate enjoyment of things that
might have excited admiration on such a
bleak and bitter morning. He saw her turn
to penetrate the tangled wilderness of trees
and dead brushwood that shut in the garden

at the end, when a young man ran out from
one of the tree-hidden paths that skirted each
side of the lawn, and Mr. Shaw turned away
from the window impatiently. He was a
practical man, inclined to look upon any sort
of love-making as a waste of energies which
might be employed in reading improving
books or in mastering some useful science,
fortified by which, a young man, arrived at an
age when he wanted some one to pour out his
tea and mend his clothes, would be in a fit
state to choose a partner for life with calmness
and discretion, and would be able to slip into
the married state so composedly and rationally
that, on his wedding morning, he would
not forget, on going to church, to take his
umbrella with him. But devotion which
would bring a man flying out, with his coat
unbuttoned, on a bitter March morning, was
unreasonable and absurd.

Gerald came up with Miss Beresford as she
was stooping over the tiny leaves of some
wild anemones, whose fragile little buds were
waiting for the tardy sunshine to unfold them.

What have you found ?" said he.

Light in lier eyes and colour in her face 
that was the answer he got, as she rose up
and shook hands with him.

aren't you cold?"

** No. I came out as early as I could,
because it's such a lovely place, and there
is such a lot to see and find out everywhere."


He looked at her in surprise. ' Lot's to
see ! Why, there's nothing but sand and
poplars !"

''Oh yes; there are little streams winding
all through the woods, and I've seen rabbits
running about ; and then there's the sea only
a little way olaf. And do you know, I've
found a swing !"

*' Yes ; that's been here ever since anybody
can remember. You must let me try it first,
if you want to use it, for fear the cord should
be rotten."

So they went a little further along the
path, till they came to a clearing among the
trees on their right hand, and there stood the
old swing. Miss Beresford let her companion
try it, and then she placed herself on the

seat, and let him swing her, as happy as a
child.

*' I should like to stay here all day," said
she exuberantly.

'' You had better not let Mr. Beresford
hear you say that. He has a high idea of his
own dignity, and I should think he would
have a still higher one of his daughter's. He
would like you to be just like Miss M'Leod.
And so," he added rather mischievously,
'' would the Fourniers."

She stopped the swing the next moment, asher
feet came near the ground, looking suddenly
grave and rather cross.

I thought they were your friends, and
you liked them !"

*' So I do, and they are my friends. But
old M. Fournier isn't the sort of friend you
would race down a hill for a franc. And
Madame and Mdlle. Fournier won't walk on
the grass, for fear of getting their feet wet,
and are very careful of their complexions."

'' And  and the other M. Fournier ?"

'' Victor ?"

*eyes."

'* Oh no, of course he doesn't care about

his By-the-bye, though, I think he does

take care of his complexion too. And I think
ho would be a little shocked by a lady who
didn't take care of hers."

'* That's all right," burst out Miss Beresford,
with great relief. ' Then he won't like
me."

*' But how will that be ' all right '?" asked
Gerald, bewildered. '' Surely when you are
going to marry a man it is better that he
should like you ?"

'why, of course, if he doesn't like me he
won't want to marry me : and as I've made
up my mind not to marry him, the sooner we
come to an understanding the better."

She announced this decision in a bright
and easy manner ; yet something in the girl's
tone reminded Gerald so strongly of her
father when he had gone through the portentous
process of making up his more important
mind on any subject, that he looked at
her for a few minutes in a rather helpless
fashion without making any remark.

"Don't you see?" she added, smiling, and

VOL. II. 19

perfectly satisfied with the decision at which
she had arrived.

** Oh, ah, yes, I see what you mean," he
answered slowly. *but to hear you talk
like that about ' will * and ' won't ' is quite
funny to anyone who knows your father as
well as I do. Besides, only the night before
last you were humble and submissive, and,
knowing quite well why Mr. Beresford sent
for you, you were ready to fulfil his wishes.
And now you talk like a different person'*

'* Because I am a different person," said
she quietly ; and as she looked up, with pink
colour in her cheeks and little wind-tossed
curls all in disorder above her eyes, he
thought so too. ' I'd been leading such a
wretched life, you know," she continued
pleadingly. *poor mamma didn't care forme
much ; she looked upon me rather as an
expensive lady's-maid, very handy with her
fingers, but entailing, through my unfortunate
relationship to her, a shocking outlay in fares,
and in boots and gloves. The rest of my
garments didn't cost much, as I made them
myself out of her old ones ; but she was

always lamenting that she had to give them
to me before they were worn out."

'' Why did you stay with her, to be treated
like that ?" asked Gerald indignantly.

She couldn't have got on without me,
for one thing ; when you've been in the habit
of scolding the same person every day for
twenty one years, you would miss that person
dreadfully. Besides, I was so used to it, that
when two or three hours passed without her
finding fault with me I thought she was ill."

Don't talk like that  I can't bear to hear
you talk like that," said Gerald, pained and
bewildered. For all the time she spoke the
tears were coming nearer and nearer to her
eyes. '' It's over now, and I dare say she
was sorry at the last. It must have been a
dreadful life, though !"

'' It was worse, afterwards, to feel that I
belonged to nobody. Then I had to think
about earning my own living, and I felt that
it was a degradation, which was silly ; and I
also felt that I didn't know how, which was
worse. I hated my father for leaving me like
that. I wouldn't be a governess, because I

192

wouldn't teach what I didn't know, as all we
poor half-educated ladies are obliged to do.
So I began to learn the harp, to play at
concerts."

*' Are you very fond of music, then ?"

*' No, I can't hear it. I would rather have
been a shop-girl, but it is very difficult to bea
shop-girl. It's very difficult to be anything
at all if you're a woman. So when my father
wrote and proposed that I should be a wife, I
thought I had better accept the situation  or
at least apply for it. But since I wandered
about this place yesterday all by myself
among the trees and the sand-hills, the
beautiful wind seemed to carry away some
of my bad thoughts and bring me some good
ones."

'' What bad thoughts did you have ? I'm
sure they were not really bad, only a little
strange because you've had such a strange
life."

'* Oh yes, they were bad. It was very
mean of me to let myself be shipped over
here so meekly, when all the while I didn't
intend to be meek unless I was satisfied with

my bargain. But now I've made up my
mind to go to my father and tell him that
I'm very sorry I ever consented to come, and
that I'll go hack to England, and will never
trouble him in any way again. I feel a sort
of new energy in me since yesterday, and I
see that it is a great deal less degrading to
earn one's own living than to allow one's self
to be offered for sale; especially," she added,
with a considerable diminution of haughtiness,
' when one feels that one is not likely to
prove an attractive bargain."

Oh, but that doesn't matter," said Gerald,
with rash haste. " I mean," he went on, as
she looked quickly up at him, '' that Victor
has left the matter in the hands of his father,
and he had every reason to believe you had
done the same. He would consider himself
bound to carry out the contract in any case,
and bound also to do his best to make you
happy, I am sure," he added honestly.

I wonder why my father wants me to
marry him ?"

' I don't know. Nobody ever knows why
Mr. Beresford wants anything, but he always

gets it. You see, he is so very clever, and so
superior to everybody else, that he feels that
other people's thoughts and beliefs can't be of
any consequence compared to his."

'* Why, that is just selfishness."

' Oh, I don't know. Clever people can't
help seeming selfish, I suppose ; and he has
been very kind to me."

Thus easily shirking a difficult question,
Gerald, seeing that Delphine was making
elaborate gesticulations at the window of the
saUe-danger, took Miss Beresford's arm in
his, and made her run with him as fast asher
feet and his could take her back to the
house. Mr. Shaw was waiting for breakfast ;
and Delphine, as she threw open the French
window, told Gerald, in what she meant for
an undertone, that monsieur had been watching
him, and had not looked pleased ; so that
the three sat down to breakfast feeling some
constraint.

"I suppose Mr. Beresford never appears
as early as this, Gerald ?" said Mr. Shaw,
when they had all been munching almost in
silence for some minutes.

*'No, he comes down at eleven whenever
he is well enough, and has his breakfast when
Miss M'Leod has hers. I'm obliged to have
mine at nine, because I have to be at St.
Pierre by ten."

'' Then I'm afraid I shan't be able to see
him before I start, for I want to get to Paris
as quickly as I can about poor Blair's business,
and I have to see Madame de Lancry
first."

'' Madame de Lancry! About Mr. Blair's
business ?"

' And about  yours."

The men exchanged looks of trust and
intelligence which caused Miss Beresford to
glance from the one to the other with jealous
curiosity ; but they said no more upon the
interesting subject, and remained preoccupied
with their own thoughts to the end of the
meal. They had scarcely risen from table
when old Pierre brought in a note written by
Miss M'Leod, but dictated by Mr. Beresford,
begging Mr. Shaw not to go until the sender
of the note had seen him ; therefore Gerald
had to start alone for Calais, though it was

with great reluctance that he shook his old
friend's hand at the hall-door.

*what time are you coming to Calais?
I should like to see you again at the station,"
said Gerald eagerly, as he got up into the gig
and took the reins.

*' I can't tell how soon Mr. Beresford willet
me go ; but I shall be off as soon as I
can. I feel that more depends on to-day's
work than we know of, and I have more
than a curiosity to hear what our excitable
friend the Eoman empress has to say."

*' Madame de Lancry ? What she said
about my father has been ringing in my ears
ever since. I shan't be able to rest till you
have seen her. She seems to think she can
explain such a lot of things."

 Too many. A specific for toothache only
one might try before rushing to the dentist ;
but one that professed to cure cramp and
lumbago as well would be mistrusted by
every intelligent sufferer."

' Then you expect nothing from Madame
de Lancry 's revelations ?" asked Gerald, in a
disappointed tone.

*' I can hardly say that. To tell the
truth, she impressed me more than seems
quite reasonable. I almost think if she had
had a fiat nose and irregular teeth I should
have set her down unhesitatingly as a lunatic ;

but as it is Well, I wouldn't recommend

bijou to have anything to do with her, or she
may prove more dangerous than if she were
one. She is very handsome," he said, with
decision ; " she may be very good," he
added, with doubt ; '' but there is something
wrong with the face  take my word for it."

Gerald Hastened dutifully, though his old
friend's words scarcely had the effect of
destroying his interest in the beautiful lady
who had professed such an attractive sympathy
with him and his fortunes. He told
Mr. Shaw that he would most carefully sift
anything he might hear, and that he would
try to be back early in order himself to drive
his friend into Calais after all.

As the gig rattled away over the stones of
the courtyard, and Mr. Shaw turned back into
the house, he found little Miss Beresford at
the door of the salon, looking at him with

the sort of half-defiant, half frightened expression
one can imagine on the face of a very
big rat brought suddenly face to face with
a very small terrier. ** Shall I fight or shall
I run away ?" That was what the look said ;
and Mr. Shaw decided the question by opening
the salon door for her and following her in.

'you and Gerald seem very good friends
already," said he.

She took this as a challenge, and answered
at once : *' Yes, and you want to prevent him
from being my friend, when he's the only one
I've got." And though she held her head in
the air and spoke with considerable acrimony,
her eyes and nose grew red and her lips began
to quiver.

Well, well, you see it won't do for either
of you to interfere with your father's arrangements,
Miss Beresford. You would both
suffer, and Gerald the most. I am told that
your father has promised you to the son of
his partner, and in that case I don't think
you ought to play with the feelings of a poor
lad who could never aspire to marry the
daughter of a rich man."

But who says he does, Mr. Shaw ? He's
only known me since the day before yesterday,
and I'm not so handsome that it is
impossible for a dear nice boy like Gerald to
run about the garden and the hills with me
without falling in love with me."

' No, I don't say you are," said he frankly.
*' But, you see, there are no other girls about,
and under those circumstances  without any
disparagement of your attractions. Miss Beresford
 a little beauty goes a long way."

Miss Beresford stood looking out over the
grey-green wintry lawn into the trees beyond
with a disconsolate and rather humble expression.
Then she said, in a weak wistful
little voice : ''1 like Gerald."

Of course you do, and therefore you
wouldn't like to get him into trouble with
your father, would you ?"

No-o, I shouldn't like to get him into
anything that would hurt him."

And Mr. Shaw perceived, as she raised a
mournful little face wistfully, submissively to
his, that this independent young person had
quaint little charms of manner which might

prove exceedingly perilous. He was on the
point of speaking to her more leniently when
the door opened, and Mr. Beresford came in,
leaning on Miss M'Leod's arm, and holding
a telegram and a letter.

When the first greetings were over, he sat
down and addressed his guest.

' I am sorry to say," he began, handing
the open letter to Mr. Shaw, '' that from this
report, sent me this morning from the bureau
de police at Calais, the robbery seems more
mysterious than ever. You know that the
train was very full, that every compartment
was entered at Calais, and the passengers
questioned before they were allowed to descend.
Well, it seems each passenger denied that any
persons left the carriage in which he or she
travelled while the train was in motion : so it
is suspected that one compartment must have
contained a whole gang of thieves, in which
case, of course, concealment of the stolen
property would be easy enough, though the
chances of ultimate detection are greater. I
would most strongly advise you, Mr. Shaw,
not to travel on that line to-night  if it is

still your intention to go to Paris  without
an escort of police."

' I dare say you are right," said Mr. Shaw,
looking grave as he read the letter. " The
beggars must be clever enough for anything,
even to know what business takes me back to
Paris. By-the-bye, I must find out the time
of the next fast train. I must not lose anymore
time."

'' There is a good one at seven tonight
"

'' Oh, that is too late ; I "

*' One moment, I beg," interrupted the
paralytic, with the haughty courtesy of an
autocrat unaccustomed to have his will disputed.
" I will tell you my reasons for
suggesting that time. An English clerk of
mine, a very clever fellow, who sees most
things that go on round him without taking
the trouble to look, chose for me the compartment
in which you travelled last night, and
must therefore have stood hear it to prevent
other passengers from getting in and taking
the remaining two corners. I telegraphed for
him very early this morning, and he is sure

to be here this afternoon, probably by the
train that leaves Paris at 9.40 and gets into
Calais at 2.41. He cannot be here before
half-past three, and then we shall have to tell
him the whole story, if he hasn't picked it upon
the road, and question him as to the people
who came near the compartment before the
train left Paris last night, between the time
you and Mr. Blair left your rugs in it to goto
the buffet, and the time Miss M'Leod and
myself got in. As soon as we have heard
what he has to say, Gerald shall drive you
into Calais, as I think I understood you to
say you had a call to make in the town before
starting on your journey."

' Yes, yes, that is so," said Mr. Shaw,
who felt bound to acquiesce in his host's
arrangements, which were indeed good ones,
although he was impatient to be in action,
remembering the haunting misery on the face
of the unlucky Blair.

It did not seem to occur to the autocratic
Mr. Beresford that anyone should venture to
interfere with plans which he had condescended
to make, and his eyes turned towards his

daughter almost before Mr. Shaw's words
of hesitating acquiescence were out of his
mouth.

*' You will want some new dresses, Margaret,"
he said solemnly, ' for I am most
anxious that you shall make a good impression
upon M. and Madame Fournier on your first
introduction. They will probably call without
delay ; therefore you must go into Calais
with Miss M'Leod tomorrow ; her taste and
judgment will be useful to you. Should the
Fourniers' formal call take place before you
are dressed as my daughter should be, you had
better keep out of the way."

*' I will, you may be sure of that'' said the
girl, crimson with mortification at having to
listen to such an admonition before a stranger,
yet not daring, after all her bravado in his
absence, to defy him in his presence.

She sat rigidly for a few moments, trying
to keep back the tears ; then, mad with
shame and anger, she jumped up, rushed
to her room, put on her shabby ulster and
travelling hat, and ran downstairs and out of
the house, to fight down in the open air

the storm of angry passions which convulsed
her. At first this proceeding answered beautifully.
She wandered away through the
straggling wood which she had traversed with
Gerald on the evening of her arrival ; she
crashed through the long broken-down dead
grasses and the bending osiers, crossed paths
which would be green and soft in summer,
passed tiny pools made by the winter rains.
And she jumped across a brook into a long
field, where an old pony was grazing who
tried to kick her. And she got between the
bars of the fence at the opposite side, and
found herself among the barren, sandy rabbit-warrens
which stretched down to the sea.
Here she felt the north-east wind in her face,
and walking was difficult ; for the uneven,
yielding ground was covered by short brownish
grass and brambles, and by a thick growth
of rushes whose net-like roots caught her
feet as she stepped ; and the whole surface of
the sandy earth was honeycombed by rabbit-holes,
in and out of which the little creatures
popped as she went by.

The keen air and the smell of the sea which

came to her over the great stretch of yellow
smooth sand which lay between the warrens
and the frothy edge of the waves as they
rolled in, brought back her colour, her spirits,
her sense of independence : she roamed about
by herself until the dull March sky began
to grow dark towards evening; and then,
suddenly frightened, although she would not
have owned it, at the idea of what her father
would say to such a long and vagabond
ramble, she turned her face towards the house
and ran at full speed. All went well with
her until she had got over the warrens and
into a field she did not know, at the other
end of which was the wood which enclosed
the house and the gardens. It was getting
dark under the trees as she reached them,
and she was too much excited and was
running too fast to be very cautious : just as
she came under the bare branches she saw
that a stream  the same she had already
crossed higher up  ran between the field and
the wood. It was narrow, but its banks were
steep and slippery. She tried to draw back,
but too late ; the moment after she had
VOL. II. 20

discovered the water she was in it, narrowly
escaping an entry head-foremost.

To sneak and to scramble out, wet to the
knees, bruised, scratched, muddy, and miserable,
was comparatively easy : to find her
wav throu2i'h the wood to the house was not
difficult, but to get into it, and to slink
upstairs unheard, unseen, was work for a
heroine indeed.

There was a carriage in the courtyard.
She dared not go to the front door, she
could not get in at the back door ; so she
crept round to the other side of the house
and reconnoitered, tearful and shivering.
There was no light yet in the middle salon,
and the window was ajar : here was her
opportunity. She darted along the path,
flung open the window, and was in the room
like a whirlwind.

There for a moment horror kept her still.
For there were little cries at her sudden
appearance and some commotion and alarm.
Near the stove sat Mr. Beresford, whose weak
eyes made him always reluctant for the
artificial light to be brought until the daylight

was quite gone. The unlucky girl saw also
the faces of Mr. Shaw and Miss M'Leod.
But besides this sufficiently awful conclave
there were two visitors  a stiff and tall old
gentleman, a voluminous and erect middle-aged
lady. They both looked at her well,
at first not at all understanding who she
might be. But Miss M'Leod's horror-struck
exclamation : ** Miss Beresford !'* betrayed
the secret. And poor Peggy, as she rushed
wildly across the room and slunk out at the
door which Mr. Shaw mercifully opened for
her, knew that she had just had the honour
of making her first appearance before her
destined father and mother in law, M. and
Madame Fournier.

202

;i HP ill I

Poor Peggy felt, as the door of the salon
closed behind her and she crept with downcast
head along the hall, as if the last faint
inducement to continue to exist had gone.
How could she now, after this desperately
humiliating, degrading, and irredeemable introduction
to her father and mother in law elect,
go proudly to her father as she had intended todo,
and, with all the maidenly and womanly
dignity at her command, inform him in an
eloquent speech that she had determined,
rather than let herself be sold to a man she
did not know and (this taken for granted)
could not care for, to return to England, and,
renouncing the brilliant prospects he had
held out to her, earn for ever after an obscure
but independent livelihood ? She couldn't

renounce anything now ; she could only wait
meanly to hear the announcement, from her
father's cold, unsympathetic lips, that she
was a failure, and that the position of his
acknowledged daughter was an honour too
great for her to bear.

As she sneaked along the hall, blind and
deaf to everything but her own unspeakable
humiliation, she suddenly felt a hand laid
gently on her arm just when she had passed
through the doorway which led to the staircase.
She started with a low cry of nervous
terror. It was only Gerald, who was looking
kind and sympathetic. He had just returned
from Calais, and was taking off his driving-gloves.


'* What's the matter. Miss Beresford ?"

'' Oh  Oh  Oh ! Everything's the matter.
I  I fell into the water, and M. and Madame
Fournier, and  and my father and everybody
saw me  all  all over mud ! Oh, why
wasn't it dee-e-ep enough to drown me !"
sobbed she.

'' Who is it ? What has happened ?" asked
in French a bright man's voice unknown to her.

She turned her head and saw that the last,
worst blow of all had fallen. By her side,
looking down at her with much amused
astonishment, was a tall, slight, handsome
young fellow, a little too showily dressed for
an English gentleman, who was twirling a
very small dark moustache into neat upturned
points, and smiling serenely as if it were the
only possible expression for one's face when
looking at a woman.

'' Mdlle. Beresford ?" he asked, still
smiling, with his head inquiringly on one side,
as he examined the limp, crushed, shabby
little person of his future bride.

'' May I introduce M. Victor Fournier ?''
said Gerald hastily, in a coaxingly gentle
tone, which caused the bridegroom-elect to
look at him with raised eyebrows, but without
relaxing the chivalrous duty smile.

It was such an informal ceremony altogether,
this ghastly finale to a most ghastly incident,
that Victor, after making a deep bow which
she answered by a drooping and despondent
curtsey, good-naturedly held out his hand, and
received, on the lavender glove he wore for

this ceremonious call, the impress of three
mutely little fingers. She saw at once what
she had done, but by this time her despair
had reached the point of recklessness, and she
looked up at him with the solemn face of one
for whom misery has exhausted its terrors.

' I am very sorry I have spoilt your glove,
monsieur," she said, in slow, halting French ;
*' but you will forgive me tomorrow, when I
have left this horrible place''

*' Not horrible so long as mademoiselle remains
here," said Victor readily, with another
bow, bravely keeping up the smile in the face
of circumstances. ' I have the pleasure to
hope that this desolate place will long be enlivened
by mademoiselle's presence."

The idea of her presence enlivening any
place just now was such an unmistakable joke
that Peggy looked up with a forlorn little
curl of the lips which was meant for a smile.
Gerald, who felt that the situation was becoming
every moment more awkward, and
who was afraid that she might burst either
into tears or into a fit of equally disconcerting
laughter, suggested that she had better

run upstairs and change her wet boots, and
gave her a little fraternal push towards the
staircase.

Adieu, monsieur," said she, with a strong
British accent, bowing to Victor.

'* Au revoir, mademoiselle," said he, bending
low to her.

And Gerald thrust his arm through that of
his friend, and led him back to the salon,
while Peggy went up to her own room, and
began pulling off her wet ulster with a defiant
determination to take her final departure from
*' Les Bouleaux " in it as soon as it was
dry. There was consolation in the thought
of speedy action, and before she had wrenched
off her soaking, spoilt little boots she had
begun to sing aloud to herself in a tuneless,
uncertain sort of manner, to indicate that
despair had driven her to a policy of insolent,
open defiance ; that, in short, she was going
to run away from ' Les Bouleaux," and they
might catch her if they could. She was
quavering out the first verse of *' The Vagabond
" for the third time, when a sharp,
precise little rat-tat sounded outside her door.

'' Who is it ?" she called out in the ** Vagabond
" manner.

' It is I, Miss M'Leod," said a thin voice.
** Can I come in, Miss Beresford ?"

Miss Beresford limped across the waxed
floor with a scowl on her face, unlocked the
door, and admitted the visitor haughtily.
Miss M'Leod was haughty too, and being
even smaller than the younger lady, she had
to tilt back her head to a very painful angle
in order not to be outdone in the matter of
superciliousness.

** I have come, by Mr. Staunton's desire,
to inquire whether it is your intention to
descend to the salon previous to the departure
of M. and Madame Fournier and their son,
and whether, in that case, I could afford you
any assistance in the matter of preparation for
the interview''

And Miss M'Leod trifled with her eyeglass
in would-be easy condescension.

** No, I've seen quite enough of them. If
my father sent for me, you can tell him I
slant come."

The housekeeper raised her eyeglass, and

returned the girl's furious look by a vacant
stare of her little light eyes which was meant
to express contempt. Then she turned, and
was sweeping towards the door, uttering
voluble and unheeded assurances that she
had never been treated in such a manner
before, and that Mr. Beresford should be
informed of the uncouth impertinence to
which she had been subjected, when, as she
turned again towards the girl with a final
denunciation, her indignation was checked by
a sudden sense of the piteousness of the shivering,
chattering, bare-footed, miserable little
figure before her, trying to force back her
tears, and to bear a brave front, while the
mud and the water still dripped from her
spoilt dress, and her teeth chattered with the
cold. Miss MXeod was not really hardhearted,
and she was hesitating as to what
form of words she could use to reopen negotiations
with dignity, when a sound of running
footsteps was heard in the corridor, and then
a knock at the door.

At first neither lady moved or spoke in
answer. Then there was another knock and
they heard Gerald's voice.

** Miss Beresford ! Margaret ! Peggy !" he
cried imploringly. ** Come out and speak
to me  come to the door. Do, do !"

Miss Beresford rushed to the door and let
her face appear at a one-inch aperture.

Oh, Gerald," she cried, in vehement reproach,
'* why did you send this woman upto
me ? Don't you think I'm miserable
enough ? Do make her come out, do take
her away."

Gerald thrust his hand through the crack,
and Peggy instantly put her fingers into his
to show she had forgiven him.

'' Miss M'Leod, what have you been saying
to her ? Kiss her, tell her you didn't mean
to be unkind, and help her to dress as quickly
as ever you can, as ycu promised," said he,
with eager volubility. * You know you said
you'd lend her something to wear. And,
Peggy, do be good, there's a dear girl, and
dress and come down and play them something,
and be amusing and bright and nice
and sweet, as you can be, and then it will all
blow over, and I can dance at your wedding
in a month after all. Say you will  quick  to
please me."

He drummed and tapped on the door
affectionately as he spoke, and Miss M'Leod
took the opportunity to make conciliatory
advances on the other side ; so after some
excited remonstrance on the part of Peggy,
Gerald was sent to call Delphine, who was
active if not particularly neat-fingered ; and
the little housekeeper having brought from
her room a black silk dress of her own, and
some carefully folded lace, and a coral necklace,
she and Delphine proceeded to array the
reluctant Miss Beresford in them, and to pin
and to fold and to fasten the borrowed garments,
until Peggy, as she was led out into
the corridor where Gerald was anxiously
waiting for her, looked like a rather pretty
little stage Puritan, in a dress which was
very short for her in front and very long
behind.

Now you look lovely," whispered Gerald,
with honest admiration, as he allowed Miss
M'Leod to pass them down the stairs, and
followed with Peggy's arm held tightly in
his; " and Victor will be delighted with you,
and it will be all right. Mind you don't

fall," he added tenderly  he didn't know how
tenderly  making her walk slowly down the
stairs and noting her appearance with much
pride. *' You don't know how wretched it
made me to see you look so unhappy ; and
I felt I would have done anything, anything
to make it all right again for you."

And they stopped at the foot of the stairs.

** Oh, Gerald, you are a dear good fellow,"
said Peggy gratefully, squeezing up one of
his hands in both hers, and looking at him
with penitent affection. *' You've made everything
seem different ; you've made that little
snappish Miss M'Leod angelically good tome
; and now I feel quite clean and happy
and not a bit afraid of those dreadful Fourniers.
And I will try to please them  to
please you. You're just like a brother tome,
indeed you are !"

So he took the fraternal privilege quite
simply and naturally, and was surprised and
a little hurt when she shrank back as he
kissed her cheek.

* Are you angry ? Don't be offended with
me. You would let your brother kiss you."

*' I  I don't know," said she rather shyly.
Nobody has ever kissed me before."

Gerald had nothing to say to this, but he
believed it ; and it gave him a great deal to
think about afterwards. He lingered therewith
her for a moment, until a loud, obtrusive,
chuckling laugh above their heads' made
them both look up, to discover Delphine
craning her neck over the top of the staircase
till she was blue in the face, to get a good
view of them.

*' Come along, Peggy," he said hastily.
And he crossed the hall, and opened the salon
door, and whispered, ** Mind you play welland
be as bright as you can," as she, with her
heart beating very fast, and a terrible feeling
of the awful conduct she had to atone for,
passed him, and went into the room.

Miss M'Leod had already heralded her reappearance.
And she looked so modest, so
fresh and charming, with the bright colour
brought by shame and excitement to her
cheeks, and the humble pleading look in her
eyes, as her father, after a mollified glance at
her, introduced her formally to M. and Madame

Founder, that the remembrance of her first
bird-like entrance only served to enhance the
good impression she now made by her gentle
self-possessed manner ; and Madame Fomnier,
a good-natured, honest, commonplace Flemish
woman, whose dot had been her chief attraction
in her husband's eyes when he married her,
but who had since acquired boundless empire
over him, drew the girl towards her in a
motherly manner to which she was quite
unaccustomed, and asked if she could look
upon her as upon the mother she had lost.

Peggy looked straight into the lady's kind
eyes, while the tears gathered slowly in her
own. 'eyes," she then answered simply;
and Madame Fournier gave her a hearty kiss
on the forehead, mistaking the girl's hesitation
for a natural feeling that no one could
quite take the place of the mother who was
gone.

Mr. Beresford noticed the good impression
his daughter was making ; Gerald grew quite
joyous over it ; Victor, indifferent as he was,
seemed relieved by the change in his bride-elect.
The stiffness of the ceremonious call

was lost in the singularity of the circumstances
which attended it, and the former conclave
had grown into a most harmonious gathering,
when a new arrival suddenly checked the
chattering tongues and laughter, and brought
back the thoughts of the whole party from
love and marriage, and such comparatively
cheerful subjects, to robbery and outrage.
Yet the intruder looked good-humoured
enough ; and it was only the remembrance of
the gloomy circumstances which had caused
him to be sent for which cast a cloud upon
the assembly as plump little Mr. Smith, with
his round black head and twinkling black
eyes, walked briskly into the room.

In the pause which followed his greetings
the Fourniers rose to take leave ; and when
Mr. Beresford, who had not yet recovered
from the fatigue of his long journey from
Nice, took advantage of their departure to retire
to his own room as the lamp was brought
into the salon, the rest of the party, left to
themselves, gradually became silent listeners
to Mr. Smith, who was characteristically
already in possession of a theory about the

robbery which was ingenious, though not
without weak points. The theory was that
the robbery had been arranged and carried
out by the servants of the railway company,
one of whom had entered the compartment at
Paris while he himself was standing by it ;
and he suggested that it must have been the
guard himself who, accustomed to walking the
length of the train while it was in motion,
to examine the tickets, according to French
custom, had availed himself of this accomplishment
to execute the robbery his accomplice
had prepared. The weakest point of
this theory was the difficulty of suggesting
any means by which the servants of the railway
company could have learnt that Mr. Blair
had a very large sum of money about him,
a fact which was only known to Lord Keighley,
Mr. Shaw, and perhaps to M. de Breteuil.
The theory, such as it was, served for
discussion until the appearance of another
visitor, M. Durand, cure of the parish, a
devoted admirer and adherent of Mr. Beresford,
whose philosophy he took as a joke, and
whose lavish charity he held up as an evidence

VOL. II. 21

of true religion, which, while saving the soul
of the donor from infernal torment, preserved
the bodies of his poorer co-parishioners from
the pinch of cold and hunger  a trial which
the simple-minded cure was not spiritual
enough to underrate. He, too, had to hear
the story of the railway robbery, and he
differed altogether from the ingenious Mr.
Smith and the practical Mr. Shaw, being
inclined to attribute the misfortune boldly to
supernatural agency.

*' Our unhappy country is most clearly accursed
during these latter years," said the
old man, whose eyes, shining brightly out of
his worn, parched, and shrivelled face, burned
with the fires of strange beliefs picked up
among the peasants, whose friend and servant
he had been so long. ' ' France is suffering
for the sin of rejecting her kings and insulting
her Church. Both these institutions are of
God, and can it be wondered at that when a
nation casts off His service it should fall
under the dominion of the devil ?"

* But the devil can find no use for banknotes
; and, if he could, he is clever enough

to make forgeries that would be cashed at
any bank," said Mr. Smith.

Miss M'Leod looked shocked, Peggy interested
; Gerald watched Peggy, and Mr.
Shaw wished that this well-meaning old
simpleton had remained at home with his
breviary.

*' The devil delights in making useless
mischief, in doing evil for evil's sake," said
the cure dogmatically. '' He has plunged us
in war, in compulsory education for minds
which do not cry out for knowledge, in
starvation for bodies which do cry for bread.
He has, they say, during the past winter
taken bodily shape to plague the miserable
inhabitants of this very district. What more
likely, then, than that this fresh outrage, diabolically
planned, diabolically carried out,
leaving no clue, admitting of no solution,
was the work of the Prince of Darkness himself?"


A short silence, during which the rest of
the party glanced at Mr. Shaw, as if expecting
him to take up the challenge ; but, fond
of talking as he was, he apparently felt that

212

to talk about clues to a man like the cure
was beneath him.

It was Gerald's fresh young voice which
broke in after old M. Durand's gloomy tones :

'' I don't know about the devil, but I know
somebody who is mixed up in this business,
or at least in jart of it ; and that's old
Monnier, the gamekeeper."

Mr. Smith and M. Durand were rather
astonished by this blunt and decided assertion ;
but the account of his seeing a stranger at
the cottage, and of the utterances of the little
boy whom he had found in the wood on the
evening of Peggy's arrival, was listened to
with attention by them.

' Perhaps Babette would account for the
stranger," suggested the blunt Smith. But
Gerald's anecdotes had made some impression
upon him, for when a rather rambling discussion
of the alleged apparitions in the
neighbourhood had gone on for some minutes,
the English clerk rose abruptly and said he
would go to Monnier's cottage at once, and
try to surprise or frighten either the gamekeeper
or his daughter into a confession, if

they had anything to confess. The little
man himself seemed rather nervous, and ashe
rubbed up the spectacles through which
he was wont to boast he could see into a
difficulty as a hawk into the night, Gerald
noticed that his face was moist and that his
little fat hands were trembling.

'' Hallo, Smith !" cried the young fellow.
*' Are you funking the walk down the avenue
for fear of seeing the black stranger and his
attendant wolf ?"

The cure silenced him by a look and
gesture of such horror that everybody in the
room was uncomfortably impressed by it.

These are not matters to be laughed at,"
said he solemnly and sternly. 'whether
the apparitions which have frightened the
peasants are real or imaginary, I myself can
vouch that their reported appearance has
never failed to be followed by calamity to
somebody."

Curiously enough, the person most affected
by this speech was Mr. Smith. He tried to
hide the fact, and nodded to Mr. Shaw,
telling him he should be back in time to

drive him into Calais, in his usual genial
voice. But he vas not himself; and as the
rest heard him cross the hall, go out at the
front door, and slam it violently after him,
Gerald laughed, and suggested that the sturdy-little
clerk was not quite so strong-minded ashe
liked to be considered. But the old cure's
superstitious earnestness, without affecting
their reason, had depressed the spirits of all
his hearers ; Mr. Shaw began to grow restless,
looked constantly at his watch, and said that
he should like to start as soon as possible.
Miss M'Leod begged him to have tea first,
and led the way into the salle-danger, where
the table had been spread for him by her
orders.

He was much touched by her kindness,
and as he sat down he said, looking at
Gerald, who had followed them into the room,
that he was glad to leave the boy in the kind
care of such a friend.

'* Friends'* chirped the little lady, correcting
him; * it is not I, but Mr. Beresford,
whom Gerald has to thank for everything."

I don't know about that," said Mr. Shaw

slowly. He was looking grave and thoughtful,
and an unusual intensity in his manner
arrested the attention of both his hearers.
** The kindness of a shrewd philosopher ought
perhaps logically to be considered of more
value than that of a simple-hearted woman.
Yet in the long-run I shouldn't wonder if
Gerald decides that he owes more to you, who
mend his stockings because he has nobody todo
it for him, than to Mr. Beresford, who
metaphorically pins him to a piece of cardboard
as an interesting specimen''

Gerald looked surprised, but Miss M'Leod
was indignant at the implied disparagement
of the autocrat of '' Les Bouleaux."

'' If you knew Mr. Beresford better," she
said, with dignity mitigated by a pleasant
sense of over-praised modesty, **3"ou would
know that his heart is just as warm as if he
were only an ordinary man."

Mr. Shaw said nothing to this, but went
on eating toast in a dogged manner which
implied that his opinion was unchanged.
Gerald offered him everything on the table
affectionately, and watched his old friend with

an ever-increasing reluctance to see the last
of him. When he rose and went into the
salon, where Peggy was finding the entertainment
of the cure, who was rather deaf, a dull
task, Miss M'Leod left the room to tell Mr.
Beresford that his guest was going. It was
nearly half-past five, and as the train to Paris
started at seven, and Mr. Shaw had to call
on Madame de Lancry before that, there was
no time to be lost. He shook hands with
Peggy, who was rather bewildered by the
events which had affected her that day, by
the sense of the importance of Mr. Shaw's
mission in Paris, and by the knowledge that
there was some mystery about Gerald in
which this Madame de Lancry was concerned;
and the next moment the door opened, and
Mr. Beresford came in, leaning on the arm of
the little housekeeper.

'* I could not let you go without making an
effort to come and bid you good-bye," said
he, as he sat down in his large carved armchair
by the stove, and held out his hand to
Mr. Shaw. His manner was rather less dry
and reserved than usual, and it was with

some human warmth of tone that he gave his
departing guest a few shrewd instructions as to
his treatment of the Paris police officials, with
whom his errand would hiring him in contact.

'above all, do not let your clue, whatever
it may be, go out of your possession except
to the head of the department himself, *' he
said. '' If you cannot see him at first, I
think, considering the grave nature of the
case, you might call at the British Embassy,
and ask for the intervention of the Ambassador
himself to get you an interview. And now I
will not detain you, for I know you have a
call to make in Calais, and you have not
much time'

Mr. Shaw thanked his host, shook hands
with him, with the cure, and then turned to
Miss M'Leod.

I hope I may have the pleasure of seeing
you again before very long," said he, as he
pressed her little thin dry hand warmly. '' I
am sorry not to be able to say good-bye to
Mr. Smith ; he promised to drive me into
Calais, but he has not come back yet, and
so "

' Oh yes, he has come back," interrupted
the housekeeper acidly, * but not in a fit state
to drive anybody, I'm afraid. I met him upstairs
just now on his way from Mr. Beresford's
room to his own, and "

Hush, you mustn't tell tales," interrupted
Mr. Beresford indulgently. '* The cabaret at
the end of the avenue is a little too near, and
poor Smith's tastes are a little too convivial.
As long as my business doesn't suffer from
his pleasures I excuse him. He will be all
right in the morning, and a good deal ashamed
of not having kept his word to you, poor
fellow."

Mr. Shaw excused him readily enough, and
left the room, accompanied by Gerald and by
Peggy, who had made up her quarrel with
him. They were all three crossing the hall
towards the front door, which was open, and
through which they saw the carriole standing
ready in the courtyard, when the big Delphine
came clattering from the kitchen like a
charging dragoon, and seized Mr. Shaw with
muscular grip, her round rosy face convulsed
with terror.

'* Monsieur, monsieur, don't go to-night ;
wait till tomorrow, do, do wait, or some misfortune
will happen to you, sure enough ! It
will indeed. Ask M. le Cure. He knows;
he will tell you you must not go."

"Don't be silly, Delphian. What is it
you mean ?" said Gerald uneasily.

"Oh, M. Gerald, the wolf has been seen
about to-night ! It means ill-luck ; tell monsieur
not to start to-nights''

What a silly girl you are, Delphine !"
said the young man, as he pushed her aside to
follow Mr. Shaw, who was already outside the
door.

Standing on the stones of the courtyard,
with the feeble light from the little lamp over
the hall-door shining on his kind grave face,
on his gray moustache and beard, he was
waiting for Gerald to come out, and looking
at him affectionately. Peggy, who was watching
him, suddenly slipped down the steps and
put her hand again into his.

"Do you believe in those superstitions of
the old priest and of Delphine ?" she asked,
in a rather frightened whisper.

** No, my clear, not a bit. Do you ?"

*'No-o, not exactly  at least, I mean of
course not, not at all. But still I wish  I
wish you weren't going to night ; I should
like you to stay a little longer, now I know
you are so kind, and such a good friend to
Gerald. The fact is," she burst out, in a
different tone, excitedly drawing his hand upto
her breast and looking at him anxiously,
'' all these mystery and robbery stories have
made me nervous and silly, and  and  you
are sure you'll be safe, aren't you ?"

* My dear child, whether the train will or
will not carry me quickly and safely to Parisis
my only care. Of wolves, in the flesh orin
the spirit, I have no fear at all, I assure
you. Gerald, my boy, we really must not
linger any longer."

He shook the girl's clinging hand again ;
the young fellow tore himself away from the
excited Delphine ; and both gentlemen got
into the carriole and drove off.

Just as the clumsy little carriage left the
stones of the courtyard for the sand of the
avenue, Peggy, who was watching it fade

into the darkness, was startled by a voice
behind her. She turned quickly, and saw
her father standing in the doorway, leaning
on Miss M'Leod's arm.

Do you think you could catch them up,
and tell them to drive fast, as fast as they
can ?" he asked, with earnestness most foreign
to his usual dry, hard manner.

'' I  I'll try," stammered Peggy. And she
sped out over the stones along the soft avenue
until she came up with the carriole just as it
turned into the high road.

Both men were startled by a breathless
voice which broke upon their ears as the little
face looked up at them. They were sitting
in the front of the carriole, side by side.

* Drive, drive fast, very fast, as fast as you
can !" panted she, in a voice shrill and broken
with excitement and exertion.

And before they could stop the fat old
horse, the little sibyl had dropped behind
them, and was lost to them in the darkness
of the avenue.

As Peggy Beresford's little elfin face disappeared
behind the hood of the-carriole, Gerald
instinctively reined in the fat old horse, which
he had been at some pains to worry into
abnormal speed. But Mr. Shaw, less susceptible,
touched the lad's arm reprovingly.

** She has good reason for what she says,
you may be sure. Drive fast. Perhaps her
words were a message. At any rate, I have
no time to lose."

Gerald's face grew suddenly hot, and he
whipped up the horse with great energy.
This valiant attempt to cover an emotion
which his companion had not even noticed
was the more unnecessary as it was already
dark  not with the darkness of night, but
with the gloom of the cloudy close of a sunless

day. There was no moon, but they
could see the light-coloured sandy road which
lay for some distance straight before them,
with flat bare fields on either side, and nothing
but an occasional clump of leafless poplars ora
tangle of dead bushes to break the monotonous
stretch of uninteresting landscape between
one group of cottages and the next.
Gerald would have liked to talk, but the
preoccupied manner of the elder man had to
be respected, so he whistled softly to himself
to while away the time until Mr. Shaw should
think fit to break the silence. This the latter
presently did upon the very subject which, in
spite of the mysteries about his father and
about the recent robbery, which had filled his
mind all day, was at the moment first in
Gerald's thoughts.

*' An odd little girl," Mr. Shaw said slowly.

*odd! Who?" asked Gerald, knowing
perfectly well who the odd little girl was.

** Miss Beresford. It isn't a woman and
it isn't a child, and it isn't a demon  at least,
I don't think so ; but it is a little of all three,
and I like it."

"Why do you say 'it's'' asked Gerald
shyly, not liking to show that he was offended,
though his whole heart was in arms.

Because to say ' she ' would be to do the
queer little caricature of humanity great injustice."


*' Caricature !" exclaimed Gerald indignantly.
*why, she's very pretty."

Ye-es, in a way. But it is a wild weird
sort of prettiness that made her, in my opinion,
look ten times better when she dashed into
the salon all over mud, with her hair half-down
behind, and falling into her eyes in
front, than when she walked soberly in, all
washed and combed like Miss Brown or Miss
Robinson, and tried her hardest to be exactly
like anyone else."

' "Well, I thought so too," Gerald admitted
with hesitation. '* But I didn't expect you
to say so, Mr. Shaw. I thought you liked
girls to be what is called well-behaved, with
their hair combed away in front, you know,
and coiled into a little knob like a shell
behind  like Miss Brown or Miss Robinson,
in fact."

'' So I do; in most respects the ordinary
well-combed girl is infinitely Miss Beresford's
superior. But you can admire a wild rose as
well as a garden rose, though the one has a
commercial value and the other hasn't. And
while I admit I should be sorry for the
persons to whom this young lady stood in the
relation of wife, housekeeper, or mother, and
I doubt whether she will ever be even tamed
down into an agreeable hostess, yet she is
shrewd and amusing en tte--tte, and when
left to herself she is picturesque. As she
made that sensational entrance, though she
looked half like a scarecrow, she looked half
like a fancy picture of the north wind. I
wonder what in the world that unlucky young
Frenchman will do with her !"

'unlucky! Victor!" stammered Gerald,
amazed and incautious. '' Why, he ought to
be standing on his head with delight."

"If he indulged in such pranks as that he
would be a better match for her, certainly,"
said Mr. Shaw imperturbably. "And their
household would at least be lively. As it is,

VOL. IL 22

I can't help thinking they stand a poor chance
of happiness, as far as one can see."

'' If if I thought that " began Gerald,

in a low, husky voice.

But he did not say what he should do if he
thought that. Mr. Shaw turned to look at
him, but did not ask him to finish liis sentence
; and there was silence for some minutes,
until they passed a man who was coming in
the opposite direction. A lean and bent eld
man he was, dressed in the usual blue blouse
of the working class ; he V\as walking quickly,
and did not glance up as the travellers passed.
Gerald leaned out of the carriole to look after
him ; there was not light enough to see much,
but the man's shuffling, halting gait was unmistakable.


*' "Why, it's old Monnier !" cried the young
fellow. '' He has been into Calais to-day, I
suppose. Then Smith didn't find him at his
cottage, so of course that's why he turned into
the cabaret, as he's too fond of doing. I wish
he had come with us ; he's so jolly clever and
so popular everywhere, that you would have
travelled twice as comfortably if he had said a

word or two to the guard and the stationmaster.
He can nearly always manage a side
of the carriage to himself, no matter how
crowded the train is."

* That was not altogether an advantage
last night," suggested Mr. Shaw thoughtfully.
'eon the whole, I am glad Mr. Smith has not
come."

Don't you like him ? Mr. Beresford
thinks very highly of him."

Yes ; I could see that."

Something in Mr. Shaw's tone puzzled the
young fellow, who looked curiously at him
while he said :

'* Of course, you didn't see enough of him
to find out how clever he is; but I assure
you in business he is Mr. Beresford' s right
hand."

'' I should say he is more than that : he is
Mr. Beresford's brain."

Gerald was too much amazed by this startlingly
heterodox statement to have anything
to say in refutation of it. He looked from his
companion to the animal he was driving, and
wondered by what strange chance such a

222

shrewd man of business as Mr. Shaw had
failed to be struck by Mr. Beresford's hitherto
unquestioned superiority to everybody else.

*' You don't like Mr. Beresford : I can see
that, sir," he said diffidently, after a silence.

'' To be frank, I do not." The flood-gates
were open at last, and the elder man turned
towards the younger with almost a sigh of
relief. "It is not a gracious task to have to
speak against the man whose guest one has
been within the hour to another man who is
his guest still. But since half-truths are dangerous,
and you are by your position deeply
interested in the character of this man, I will
tell you my opinion : it is, that Mr. Beresford,
philosopher and philanthropist, is nothing buta
selfish hypochondriac, with just sense enough
to get himself well served, and to know that
the less he says and does himself, and the
more he leaves to his clever clerk, the better
it will be both for his interests and his reputation.
The clerk knows this as well as the
employer, and profits by it, no doubt : he
probably has a good deal of business on his
hands of which his paralytic employer knows

nothing ; but, rogue as I believe him to be, I
confess I prefer his audacious knavery to the
cold-blooded cynicism of the other."

What do you know about Smith ? What
have you found out ?" asked Gerald, deeply
interested. '' You must know something to
speak like that."

*' Well, yes, I do. I learnt by chance,
whilst in Paris, that this trustworthy Mr.
Smith is making private bargains of his own
with one of his employer's clients."

'' Impossible ! Who was it with ?"

'WithM. deBreteuil."

*' M. Louis de Breteuil ? One of our best
cents. I must tell Mr. Be "

' You will do nothing of the kind  yet.
You only know enough to bring yourself into
disgrace with both of them, for Mr. Beresford
would believe nothing against his confidential
clerk without strong proof. And all I can
tell you at present is that I myself, when I
accompanied Blair on his second call at M.
de BreteuiFs hotel, heard the open-faced little
Smith say, as he and the millionnaire passed
me on the stairs, that ' a bargain made with

an old paralytic didn't matter much, and would
not interfere with their agreement And they
both seemed to enjoy the joke immensely."

*' I wish you hadn't told me ; it has made
me feel so jolly uncomfortable," said Gerald,
after a pause.

'* And a good thing too. I don't want you
to be comfortable here ; I don't want you to
stay here. You must come back to your old
friends in England, and we'll soon put mysteries
and knaveries and elfin girls out of your
head "

*No, Mr. Shaw' Gerald broke in very
decidedly. 'rit's awfully kind of you, and I
know it seems beastly ungrateful of me to say
no ; but I do mean to stay in this country for
more than one reason. The first is, of course,
that I must discover how and by whom my
father was murdered. The second "

The second reason was not so easily explained,
for the young man stopped.

Mr. Shaw nodded disapprovingly.

Of course the elfin girl !"

'' It's not exactly that," said Gerald apologetically.
" At least, not  not in the way

you mean. But, you see, the poor little
thing has got no friends, and her father doesn't
seem to care for her much, while  while she
and I, you know, seem to get on very well
together, not like  like spoons, you know  
not a bit like that, but more like chums, you
know. She isn't stiff, like other girls, at
least not with me  I mean'* he corrected
himself hastily, "she's only stiff before
strangers, you know."

"And how long is it since you were
a stranger to her ?"

Well, of course  er  two days isn't
really a long acquaintance; but then, when
people meet first in a rather unceremonious
fashion, without having anybody to introduce
them to each other, why, I think they seem
to know each other quicker."

'' I've no doubt they do."

I don't see the use of such a lot of fuss
about formal introduction, myself. It seems
to set up a barrier at once between you and
the person you're introduced to ; just as if
the introducer said, ' I know I'm doing a
risky thing in introducing to you such a bad

character as this ; but there  I'll hold myself
responsible for his decent behaviour.' If Mr.
Beresford had formally presented me to his
daughter, as M. Fournier did to Louise,
I should have looked upon her as I do upon
the Dresden figures in the cabinet in the
drawing-room, pretty silly things too fragile
to play with, and whose value I don't understand.
But when you first meet a girl curled
up in a chair like a kitten, with her head
hanging down over one side, and her little
feet stuck up in front of her on a level with
her shoulders, you  you  er  why, you feel
she isn't china. And  and that's how I
feel about Peg  Miss Beresford."

*' Well, I think it's a great pity Peg  Miss
Beresford wasn't formally presented to you by
her papa. It's a mistake in the long-run fora
lad to see so few young women that he
looks upon them as china ; but when once he
has got to look upon them in that light,
it is better he should continue to do so,
and, above all, that he should not want a
Dresden figure for his own cabinet."

'* But, Mr. Shaw, you're not a bachelor."

*' No, my boy ; but no right-minded martyr
would wish to send others to the stake."

And yesterday you said if I came to
Eughind you would find me a nice wife."

'' Yes, but not the promised wife of another
man. Gerald, take care what you're doing ;
for if you interfere with Mr. Beresford's plans,
you will find "

He stopped, and peered out from the hood
of the carriole. Gerald's glance followed in
the same direction, but he saw nothing excepta
bit of straggling hedge that bordered the
roadside for a little way, up to the rough
wall of a dilapidated and deserted cottage
some hundred yards in front of them.

** What was it ?" The circumstances of
the drive, the subjects of their thoughts, were
just gloomy enough for both men to feel
a suspicious interest in every animate object
about them.

*' I thought I saw something running on
the other side of those brambles."

' A rabbit, I expect ; the ground all round
here is honeycombed with their holes."

*' It was a rabbit four feet high, then."

** A donkey, perhaps'

' Very likely'

Neither of the men made any attempt to
resume the interrupted conversation. Both
kept their eyes upon a turn of the road still
some yards off, where the ruined cottage on
the left hand, and a copse of small trees and
bushes on the right, closed in the prospect.
Gerald gave the old horse a smart cut with
the whip, and, at the moment the animal
began to quicken his pace, a low whistle was
distinctly heard from the direction of the
copse.

** Hullo!" said Gerald softly, glancing at
his companion, who gave a short nod to
intimate that he heard, and swung his legs
over the front of the carriole for freedom of
action in case of emergency. For, without
exchanging a word on the subject, both men
had prepared, during the last few minutes,
for foul play of some sort. As the carriole
was drawn rapidly into the shadow of the
tangled branches, the younger tightened his
hold on the reins, glanced round at his friend,
and their eyes met  for the last time.

** There is something wrong, I am sure of
it. Shall we tm-n back''

*' No. It is too late. Drive on  fast."

Again Gerald drew the whip sharply over
the horse's now steaming flanks. There was
something in front of them, some dark object
crouching by the side of the road, on the
right hand, nearest to the side where the
young man sat. The latter had scarcely
caught sight of it when the low whistle was
heard again, and Gerald knew that the crouching
object was a man. "With his eyes steadily
fixed upon that spot, he turned the whip in
his hand to have the butt-end ready for defence,
when suddenly he felt the shock of a
heavy weight flung with force on to the front
of the carriole and a roaring furnace breath
against his neck, while the gurgling sounds of
a beast in fury fell upon his ears, and Mr.
Shaw's loud cry of ' Help !"

He was only just in time, as he turned, to
see his friend dragged down to the ground by
the jaws of a great animal, whose long white
fangs and red bright eyes shone in the darkness.
He was springing up to help him

when lie felt the horse, which had been
checked by the attack and by the fall of Mr.
Shaw, stop short ; the two-wheeled carriole
fell back with a jerk, and just as Gerald was
thrown backwards over the seat into the interior
of the vehicle, he saw a man, whom
even in that rapid glance he could see to be
very tall and very slim, spring from the
horse's head towards him. A moment later,
as, half stunned by the violence with which
his head, in falling, had struck against the
back seat of the carriole, Gerald was trying to
scramble up to the help of his friend, he felt
a long cold hand upon his throat, and looking
up, he saw quite plainly even in the darkness
the face of his assailant. Only for a moment ;
as, with struggling breath and starting eyes
he lay helpless, with a hand at his throat and
a knee upon his chest, meeting with horrible,
involuntary steadiness the steady gaze of the
man whom he believed to be his murderer,
noting on the instant every feature, freezing
under the frigidity of the pitiless eyes, he felt
himself suddenly blinded, then gagged, and
lastly bound, still with the cries of his old

friend ringing in his ears, still making frantic
efforts to get free.

He knew that he had no hope of escape ;
knew that the long cold hands were quick and
skilful, and that the infinite torture he was
suffering as he lay blindfolded, expecting every
moment to feel the muzzle of a revolver
against his temples, was the work of very few
minutes ; but the sense of his own danger
was deadened by a strong conviction that he
was only a secondary victim, that however it
might fare with him, it would fare worse with
Mr. Shaw. As well as he could, for the
handkerchief which was tied tightly across
his mouth, he made broken entreaties, gasping
out such words as came first, in the agony of
his heart.

*for God's sake  don't hurt him  don't
hurt the other man ! He  he is my best
friend  he is goodness itself. If you are in
want, he'll help you  I know he will, I swear
it. For God's sake  don't  don't touch him,
don't, I say "

But the man never paused in his work,
never spoke. Having bound Gerald's arms to

his sides, his feet to each other, he leapt down
to the ground, as the young fellow knew from
the tilting forward of the carriole. For a few
seconds, whether there was silence or whether
he was partly stunned by this last rough jerk,
Gerald heard nothing. Then Mr. Shaw's
voice, clear, loud, and strong, rang out intones
that the young man never forgot :

' I hyoid you \"

Then followed a sharp crack of the whip,
which the assailant had wrested from Gerald
as he attacked him ; and the carriole went
jolting and jerking over the rough road at a
speed it had never travelled before, the scared
horse galloping on in the dark, while Gerald
in vain tried to free his hands from the cord
which bound them, and to reassure the horse by
the tones of his voice, which were, however,
changed and muffled by the handkerchief tied
across his mouth. The carriole had been
dragged some hundred yards before Gerald
heard any further sound but the thud of the
galloping horse's hoofs and the creaking and
bumping of the vehicle. Then above all these
monotonous noises his straining ears caught a

cry that froze bis blood and checked his
breath, and made his shuddering body cold
and wet as he fell back again, inert and despairing,
on to the floor of the carriage.

For the voice was that of Mr. Shaw, and
the cry was ' Murder !"

On went the carriole , rumbling and rocking;
the old horse, his flesh still quivering from
tho unmerciful and unaccustomed lash, galloped
along the well-known road towards
Calais, with foam-covered bit and steaming
flanks. The road was straight, flat, and little
frequented ; there was no obstacle to turn
aside the frightened animal, no solitary foot-passenger
to stop him until he drew near to
the turning on the right hand which led into
the town of Calais. Here the canal runs
alongside the road, separated from it by a
wooden fence and a strip of rough ground.
A group of loitering gamins shouted and yelled
at the horse, attracting the attention of some
workmen on the bridge over the canal, two of
whom came running towards the corner when
in the dusk they descried the grey-covered
top of the old carriole, as it came swaying

and shaking towards them. As the (jamins
followed in a yelling, hooting flock, the horse,
whose pace had grown slower from exhaustion,
made a last frantic effort, and, dashing up to
the corner with an instinctive attempt to make
the accustomed turn, brought the off-side
wheel in such sharp contact with the post
and rails which fenced off the field by the
canal from the road that the carriole was overturned
and the shafts snapped like tinder,
leaving the old horse free, but so effectually
checked that he was easily caught by a lad,
while a group of those who had witnessed the
accident gathered round the fallen vehicle.

** Some one inside !" cried one man, as he
peered under the partly shattered cover.

'' He is hurt !" " He is still !" '' He is
dead !" cried different voices, as men and
boys swarmed, pushing and peeping, about
the overturned carriage.

Then a voice rose in authoritative tones
above the rest: ' Stand back, keep off the
gamins. If the man is breathing still, he will
not breathe much longer if you crowd over
him like herrings and keep off the air."

And two or three strong-armed workmen
forced back the foremost of the growing
crowd, while the man who had first spoken,
aided by another in a blouse, opened the door
of the carriole and gently drew out Gerald's
prostrate and senseless body. At the first
sight of the handkerchief with which he was
gagged, now wet and blood-stained, and of
the cords which bound his arms, murmurs
and exclamations broke from the nearest onlookers
; their cries were taken up by those
behind till the road was in an uproar ; men,
women, and children struggling, screaming,
and running, some to get the best possible
view of the backs of those persons who had
been lucky enough or muscular enough to get
close to the wretched carriage, some to meet
the police, who were hurrying to the spot.

** There has been a crime !" '* It is a
murder !" were the whispers, the cries, that
ran like wildfire from mouth to mouth, while
those about the senseless man cut the cords
which bound him, and did their best to revive
the not yet extinct life within him. By this
time he had been recognised, and his name

VOL. II. 23

was repeated with redoubled sympathy for
him, with redoubled horror at the crime of
which he had been the victim. For Gerald
Staunton and the gig and the fat horse were
well known in Calais and St. Pierre; and
though he had few personal acquaintances
outside the factory, his good-humoured face
and his evident disgust at the turn-out he
drove had made him a familiar and popular
feature of the neighbourhood.

At the first sign he gave of returning consciousness,
he was, on the suggestion of one
of the workmen from the factory who
happened to be among the throng, carried
on an impromptu stretcher straight into the
town of Calais and to the house of M. Fournier,
where the strange story caused the
utmost consternation among the family, who
were at dinner when the unconscious guest
arrived.

He was taken up to Victor's own room,
where motherly Madame Fournier tended him
herself, while Louise, after being refused permission
to see him, went into hysterics in the
dining-room. When the young man opened

his ees he at first remembered nothing, but
stared silently at the green curtains of the
bed on which he had been placed, and smiled
at the kind face of the lady bending over him.
It was not until he caught sight of Victor,
who was standing behind his mother, looking
very grave and anxious, that Gerald's face
clouded with dull pain and perplexity. The
young Frenchman could not restrain his eager
solicitude : at this first gleam of intelligence
in his friend's eyes he leaned over the bedside,
and asked impetuously :

Gerald, who was it attacked you ?"

The young fellow suddenly sprang up on
the bed, with fire in his eyes.

'' He has been  murdered !" he cried
hoarsely.

Madame Fournier fell back in bewilderment
and horror ; Victor pressed past her,
and supported the young fellow in his arms.

* Who  who has been murdered, Gerald?"
he asked, in tones almost as hoarse as those
of the injured man.

But Gerald's head sank wearily, and his
eyes grew dull and gentle again.

232

** Who !" he repeated, trying to rouse himself;
"why  why, it was my father! No
one will believe it, I know; but they did
murder him. Can't you let me sleep
now ? I will tell you the whole story in the
morning."

Victor laid him gently down, and turned
to his frightened mother.

Poor fellow ! His head is not quite clear
yet'' he whispered.

He was retreating from the room, when
his mother rushed towards him and seized
his arm.

Where are you going, Victor ? AVliat
are you going to do T'

I am going to ride to * Les Bouleaux ' to
inquire into this."

*'No, no; you must not go to-night 
while there are robbers, murderers about,"
said she excitedly, clinging to him.

He disengaged himself by a deft movement,
and addressed her from the passage
with a more dramatically valiant air than an
Englishman would have thought necessary,
but with earnestness and fire.

What one man can dare another can,
mother. I will not rest until I have done
what I can to discover who committed this
crime !"

Before she could utter one word more, he
had shut the door and hurried down the
stairs.

Victor FouRNiEB rode to ** Les Bouleaux '*
as fast as his English horse, which had long
been the envy of the less fortunate Gerald,
could carry him. He was sincerely anxious
to find out who it was that had used Gerald
so ill, curious as to what had become of Mr.
Shaw, and just sufficiently interested in the
queer little English girl whom he was to
marry to feel glad that her father's house was
to be the scene of his inquiries.

Delphine opened the door, and showed the
ingenuous surprise of a rustic servant at sight
of him. He had fastened his horse to the
garden paling on the opposite side of the
courtyard, to save time, and he now stepped
quickly, and without speaking, into the hall,
whip in hand.

Monsieur desires to see Mr. Beresford ?'*
inquired Delphine, looking at him curiously,
as she began to cross the hall towards the
salon.

*' Wait a minute," said he, stopping her.
He did not wish to give unnecessary alarm,
and he thought the girl might supply him
with some of the information he wanted.

'ris Mr. Staunton at home?" he asked
tentatively.

*' No, sir. He has gone to Calais with the
English gentleman who came last night'*

'* Mr. Shaw ? Are you certain of this T'

Yes, sir. I myself saw them drive off
in the carriole ; I was standing at the door
here with Mr. Beresford, and Miss M'Leod,
and la iKtite demoiselle, who ran after them to
tell them to drive fast, by her father's desire."

To drive fast ! Mr. Beresford said they
were to drive fast T' cried Victor excitedly,
seizing the girl's strong arm, and peering
with intent eyes into her face. *' Were they
late, or was he afraid of something ? Speak
out, can't you ?"

But the girl began to call upon the saints

and to implore the Virgin to protect them all,
with irrelevant devotion which made the
young man stamp his foot impatiently.

At last she exclaimed in a loud guttural
whisper : *' The wolf! I know it is the wolf!
0, what has he done ?"

'' Be quiet a moment," said Victor authoritatively.
Then, having decided that the lest
person to ask for was the clever English
clerk, he went on, " Where is Mr. Smith ?"

*' He is in bed, sir. He went out this
afternoon soon after you and M. and Madame
Fournier had left ; he returned a little while
before Mr. Shaw and M. Gerald went away,
but he had been drinking ; so Mr. Beresford,
who met him on the stairs, told him to goto
bed," answered Delphine, aching with
curiosity and alarm, but constrained by
Victor's commanding manner to confine herself
to replies.

'' And Mr. Beresford ? Is he in bed yet ?"

*' No, sir. When the gentleman had gone,
he and Miss M'Leod went back to the salon,
where he has been ever since, playing chess
with M. le Cure."

Victor paused a moment, considering what
he should do. Then he glanced at the door,
and saying, '' I will go in," he followed
Delphine, who burst open the door with
alacrity, and clattered over the polished floor
of the first salon, which was empty, to the
entrance of the second.

'*M. Victor Fournier!" she announced in a
loud hoarse voice, shaking with excitement ;
and then she drew back to allow the gentleman
to pass her, and watched the effect of his
entrance without ceremony from the doorway.

Everyone looked up in surprise. Mr.
Beresford, with a pawn in his hand, peered
up from the chessboard under the green shade
he wore to protect his eyes from the glare of
the lamp ; the cure, his opponent, who was
sitting opposite, with his back to the door,
turned and examined Victor over his spectacles.
Peggy and Miss M'Leod, who were
sitting near the fire, the former nursing her
chin, the latter knitting, both uttered exclamations
of alarm, and listened to his vehement
words spellbound with horror.

' Mr. Beresford  ladies  mon pere," he burst

out in fiery haste, his eyes travelling rapidly
from one to the other, '*I have bad news  I
do not deny it  you can see it in my face. I
fear  I know  that a crime has been committed
!" Miss M'Leod screamed, and Peggy
started up and leaned against the mantelpiece.

Gerald has been hurt  and Mr. Shaw "

He paused, but no one could speak to tell him
to continue.

At last Mr. Beresford signed to him to goon,
with a trembling hand.

* Mr. Shaw is missing."

Not the charitable cure, not either of the
tender-hearted ladies, was it whom these
tidings utterly overwhelmed. It was the
philosopher, the cynic, Mr. Beresford, who
sank back in a heap into his chair, muttering
low cries of horror, crushed and appalled by
the awful news.

*I warned him  I did warn him  my God,
I did!" they heard him mutter hoarsely to
himself, as he bent his grey head upon his
hands and shook with anguish which astonished
all the rest, even at that moment of
general consternation.

Victor crossed the small room to him, and
reverently touched the old man's clutching,
quivering fingers.

** Don't give way like that, Mr. Beresford.
It may be all right. We don't know anything
yet. It was only a wild guess of mine ; it
was stupid and mad of me to tell you. Mr.
Shaw may  must have got out of the carriole
before it reached Calais. He will probably
have turned up safe and sound by this time,
and "

But, raising his head, the old gentleman
interrupted him in tones that no one present
ever forgot :

' No, no ; he will never turn up. He has
been murdered !"

Peggy sprang forward; in the midst of the
awful hush which followed these words, and
clung to Victor's sleeve.

** Oh, tell me, tell me," she begged, in a
voice so broken that the young man could
scarcely understand her  " Gerald  Gerald  
is he  murdered too ?"

Victor shuddered.

'' No ; he is quite safe at my father's house,

mademoiselle. And so, I hope, in spite of
Mr. Beresford's fears, is Mr. Shaw also by
this time*'

He turned, and saw that the master of
'* Les Bouleaux " had risen from his chair,
and was standing, supported by his faithful
housekeeper, who was unmistakably in tears,
shaking as with palsy as he tried to cross the
room towards the door.

*' Where are you going, sir ?" asked Miss
M'Leod timidly through her tears.

*' I  I must go upstairs. I  I must see
Smith'' said he, in a voice that sounded
strange and broken.

'' But he is asleep, and he was not sober
when he went to bed. He won't be able to
help you," she persisted, her tone growing
rancorous at once.

'* He knows something  he guesses something,"
murmured the old man, as the others
made way for him. 'He said something
about Monnier when he came in, and I met
him and told him to go to bed. I must see
him at once."

The two went upstairs as fast as Mr.

Beresford's infirmity would allow, and after
knocking some moments at the door of the
spare room where Mr. Smith was sleeping, ant
last a drowsy voice called, ** Come in !" and
the housekeeper left her employer to go in,
and returned to the salon below, where Peggy
was sitting, rigid and dumb with horror and
distress, on a low chair by the fire. Victor
was watching her with curious eyes which
saw more than the pale little face before him,
and the good cure, with professional instinct,
was improving the occasion by an unheeded
homily on the ways of Heaven.

The young man started forward on the
entrance of the housekeeper.

*' They are upstairs together  Mr. Beresford
and Mr. Smith ?" asked he hastily.

** Yes ; they are in Mr. Smith's room.
You must not go  you must not intrude,"
she added in alarm, as Victor passed her.

*' I must and will know all they know  all
they can suggest'* said he resolutely.

And without waiting to hear more objections,
he left the room, went upstairs, and,
turning to the right, walked along the corridor

until he came to a door on his right hand
which stood ajar, and through which the weak
flame of a candle threw a line of light before
his feet. He could hear two voices  the one
firm and hard, the other alternately piteous
and angry. The former was that of Mr.
Beresford, who, having partially recovered his
own self-control, was trying to induce the
clerk to do the same.

'* Come, be a man. Smith, be a man** he
was saying as Victor drew near the door.
** I've been a good master to you  not too
strict in the matter of perquisites, not too
hard upon occasional excess. Pull yourself
together for once; My very honour is concerned
in this awful business  Mr. Shaw was
my own guest. For God's sake leave off
snivelling your wits away ; dress yourself, go
back with young Victor "

** May I come in T' asked the young man,
who had now reached the door, and who was
losing patience with the half-audible tipsy
objections of the clerk Smith, whose cleverness
when sober was only equalled by his
imbecility when drunk.

He gave almost a howl as Victor's voice
startled him. Mr. Beresford, more collected,
though even his nerves were not proof against
a start at the interruption, said, ' Come in''

Victor entered, grave, handsome, earnest.
He glanced from the stupid-looking bullet-headed
Smith, who was sitting in his nightshirt
on the edge of the bed, childishly sobbing
and wiping his eyes with a crochet mat, to
Mr. Beresford, who, while scarcely less affected
than the other, had by this time got enough
command of himself to bear the horrible
catastrophe with dignity as well as grief.

*' Victor," said the latter, turning to the
young man, ** you're a good fellow, a brave
fellow, to have come back along this road in
the face of what might have been danger for
you too. But you shall not go back alone ;
since this coward will not stir, I will go with
you myself, old and infirm as I am, and, with
Heaven's help, we may find Mr. Shaw breathing
yet."

With a sudden jerk, more like a mechanical
toy just wound up than like a man stung into
heroic resolution, Mr. Smith bounded off the

bed and began to dress, complaining piteously
and vaguely that *' it was just like his luck."
Victor gave Mr. Beresford his arm, and they
left the unhappy clerk to shake and snivel
himself into his clothes as quickly as he
could. Outside the door the young man said
suddenly :

** You talk of hope, Mr. Beresford but I
can see that you feel none. You have some
theory about this horrible affair."

'' Yes, I have; but I warn you that, instead
of explaining, it makes the outrage more
mysterious. Whether poor Mr. Shaw has
been killed or not, I do not know ; but I
believe he has been attacked and robbed by
the thieves who have haunted the Department
this winter. It's a very terrible thing, this ;
it points to there being a regular organized
gang in the neighbourhood, to whom no one
is sacred ; and if they attack people in carriages.
Heaven only knows whether before long they
may not try their hands on us in our own
homes !"

For the selfish fears which checked the
current of the older, colder blood Victor had

little sympathy : he willingly made over his
companion to the cares of old Pierre, who,
more helpless than ever in his horror at the
story Delphine had brought into the kitchen,
gave a trembling and untrustworthy arm for
his master's support. The young man had
scarcely reached the bottom of the stairs
when Smith, still maudlin, but rather more
coherent, overtook him, and linked his arm,
for sympathy and steadiness, within that of
the young Frenchman.

" If we must go corpse-hunting along that
beastly road, let us have the priest with us,
if it's only for company," muttered the clerk,
directing his companion's steps towards the
moon.

Smith had been brought up a Eoman
Catholic, and although he had impulsively
professed a variety of creeds since that, and
had never been particular to a dogma or two,
he still occasionally carried his sins and his
remorse to the confessional, and took spiritual
guidance when nothing better offered.

The cure, though not physically fearless,
was far too good a man to shrink from any
VOL. II. 24

call which might be taken for that of duty,
and he at once consented to accompany them
on their search for any trace of Mr. Shaw.
Victor turned back and slipped into the inner
salon for a farewell word to Miss Beresford,
whom he still found sitting looking blankly
and forlornly into the dying fire. He was
very much in love with Madame de Lanfranc
an officer's daughter with the manners of
an officer's son ran this lady a good second in
his admiration ; but his heart was a gallery
where room could always be made for a new
picture, and the young English girl who was
to be his wife, with her piquant face and odd
freedom of manner, might on sufferance be
accorded a place there. The faithful Miss
M'Leod had gone upstairs, dutifully to worry
her employer. Victor had mastered the interesting
fact that English girls were allowed
a great deal of liberty with their fiances : why
should he not take advantage of these circumstances
to administer to the fragile-looking
little lady the kiss of consolation ?

There is something so dignified in sorrow
quietly borne that Victor instinctively bowed

low to her as she raised her sad eyes on
his entrance. He had not much time to
waste over his consolation, however, and he
came slowly and respectfully towards her ashe
spoke.

"Pardon, mademoiselle; I am intruding,
I am afraid. I came to say good-hye."

Like a child she smiled up at him and held
out her hand.

' Thank you ; it is kind of you to remember
me at a time like this''

*sit is impossible not to remember mademoiselle
at all times."

'* You are going back now, to  to "

To look for  Mr. Shaw ; I hope we
may find him safe."

' Indeed, I hope so too. And then "

She hesitated again.

Then I shall return to my father's house,
and shall see how poor Gerald is getting
on."

Her face quivered. She was standing up
now, looking away from him with a subdued,
constrained expression which he pardonably
took for the most bewitching modesty.

242

"Is he much hurt ?" she asked, still looking
away.

I hope not  I think not. He was
stunned by the jolting of the cart; he will soon
be all right. We'll take good care of him."

'" You are very good  all of you. I am-sure
you will."

She looked at him gratefully, and the
young man thought her tear-stained eyes were
very beautiful, and wondered why his sister
Louise couldn't manage to look as well when
she had been crying. No opportunity could
be better. Her face looked delightfully innocent
and inviting, and her forlorn expression
and attitude were not to be resisted.

' Poor little lady ! You are in need of
comfort too. Let me console you."

He bent his head with an unmistakable
intention ; but to his astonishment, before his
lips could touch her face she moved suddenly
back, all the seductive limpness gone from her
attitude, and most plainly expressed indignation
on her face. The young Frenchman's
dismay did not last long.

'< Why is mademoiselle so severe with mo,

when she has done me the honour to accept
me for her affianced husband ?" he asked
plaintively.

*' That was my father's doing, M. Fournier,"
she answered promptly.

'but mademoiselle consented to the
arrangement ?"

After a pause  " Ye-es."

The ladies of your country are not usually
so chary of their kisses to the man they honour
with their choice."

But there is no honour and no choice
in this case, M. Fournier ; and as we have
begun the ' arrangement ' in the fashion of
your country, we will go through with it
in the same fashion. M. Durand is coming
hack for you. Good-night."

She gave him her hand to touch and drop,
very coolly ; and Victor went away understanding
much more clearly than before why
English girls are allowed so much liberty in
their engagements.

** She is a man in petticoats," he said
to himself, only half disdainfully, as he left
the house with the priest and Mr. Smith.

But she was not ; she was only the
ordinary little feminine fool fond of the
wrong man, and therefore endowed with the
stoniest strength of mind in her dealings with
the right one. She went to bed unhappy
about the fate of Mr. Shaw, unhappy about,
her engagement with Victor, but most of
all unhappy because Gerald  good, kind' old
Gerald, whom a week before she had never
seen, but whom circumstances had already
hoisted into the place of honour in her young
girl's imagination  was lying ill three miles
away, and she could not tell when she should
see him again.

In the meantime the three searchers had
trudged together along the Calais road, and
discovered, to their great relief, that they had
been forestalled in their explorations. Distant
cries and shouts were heard along the road
soon after they had left the poplar avenue ;
and when following the direction whence the
noises came, they reached the spot between
the copse and the deserted cottage where the
attack had been made, they found that a party
of police, sent out at the suggestion of the

elder M. Fournier, who knew that Mr. Shaw
was to he driven into Calais by young Staunton,
had already reached it, and that a
discovery had just been made which put a
fatal end to all doubt about the occurrence.

For, following the marks of blood which
were found in the middle of the road where
the carriole had been stopped, which appeared
also from time to time on the untidy garden -
path of the deserted cottage, the police had
found inside the ruined building the dead
body of Mr. Shaw, with the marks of fangs
at his throat, and a bullet-wound in his
breast. His pocket-book, purse, watch, chain,
and scarf-pin were gone, so that there could
be no doubt in the mind of anyone that the
object of the murder was robbery. A stretcher
had been hastily formed of two boards ; the
body of the dead man was placed upon it, and
the solemn procession back to Calais began.
Victor, hastening ahead of his two companions,
was the first to learn these details,
the first to see this sight ; then he stepped
back again to inform the cure and Mr. Smith
of the discovery.

The clerk, on learning it, was seized with
such convulsions of horror and fright that it
was with difficulty he could be persuaded
to continue the walk towards Calais, where
Victor had made up his mind to confront him
with Gerald that night. The English clerk,
though clever, had the reputation of being
rather a slippery fish, and his conduct this
evening had raised in the mind of his
employer's son the suspicion that his drinking
that afternoon, and subsequent hurrying off
to bed, might have been the result of remorse,
and of a wish to be out of the way of any
unpleasant occurrences of which he might
have got wind. So the .young Frenchman
was inexorable, and poor Smith had to drag
his trembling and unwilling limbs towards
the town, taking good care, however, to keep
a considerable distance between him and the
terrible freight the police were bearing in the
same direction.

In turn the canal was reached, the bridge
crossed, the moat and the gloomy ramparts
passed, and the quiet streets of old Calais
traversed, until at last, with Victor and the

priest still walking one on either hand, the
clerk stood before the porte-cochre of M.
Fournier's house. Victor rang the bell, and
the concierge opened the little door within one
half of the large one, and admitted them.
As they stood just inside  Smith behind the
others, as he was not in a mood to assert his
personality  Victor asked, 'have you heard
how M. Staunton is ?"

"No better, I fear, monsieur. This lady
has been unable to see him," answered the
concierge, indicating a tall, handsomely-dressed
lady, who was at that moment
crossing the courtyard towards the lodge
from the front door of the house.

Victor hastened towards her eagerly,
crying, " Ah, Madame de Lancry ! What
an unexpected pleasure 1"

The old cure glanced at her without
interest : rich women dressed like modistes'
pictures he had, through long absence from
the world in which they live, ceased to regard
as the possessors of souls.

But on Smith the sight of the lady, the
first sound of her voice, as she begged Victor

to excuse her abruptness now, as she was
anxious to get back to her husband, acted
like a spell. He craned his bullet head
forward with one fearful stare, then, turning
sharply, he slipped through the open door,
and, seeing a fiacre standing there, jumped
into it, hoarsely promising the driver a
napoleon if he could drive him to the station
in five minutes.

I've taken her own cab, I believe," said
Smith to himself, in feverish tremulous exultation,
as the enterprising driver drove off at
Avhat he considered a good pace, sacrificing
his engagements to his avarice. ' Now, if I
can only get a train to Boulogne and catch
the night boat to London, I'm out of the way
of the whole boiling till I've had time to
think a bit."

But luck was against him. When he got
to the station, he found he had twenty
minutes to wait, so he went into the buffet
for a 'petit verve . He had scarcely raised the
glass to his lips when the lady whose cab he
had so unceremoniously taken entered the
room, which was almost empty, and walked

straight up to him. He did not attempt to
escape her this time ; he knew it was of no
use.

'' I thought I should find you here," she
said simply, but with a certain unpleasant
suggestion in her tones of an intention to
*have it out with him."

* Yes  er  I  glad to see you, Madeline,"
said he, without much spontaneity.

' I wish to speak to you. Will you come
into my sitting-room for a few minutes ? I
am staying here."

** Certainly, with  with pleasure. But, I
say  er  Madeline, I suppose you don't want
to  to have me back, or to  make it up ?"
said he, following submissively but coyly.

'not exactly."

'then aren't you  afraid of  people
guessing the  the  well, in fact, that you
are  were  as a matter of fact  my wife ?"

Not in the least," said she contemptuously,
as she opened the door of her sitting-room,
and he followed her in.

The sitting-room into which Madeline de
Lancry led her visitor was the same in which
she had received Victor two days before.
Mr. Smith glanced round him at the furniture,
which was somewhat spare and unpretending,
and then at the diamonds in the
lady's ears, in unconcealed astonishment.

* You don't seem particularly well lodged,
for such a fine lady as you have become," he
suggested as an opening.

His own taste lay in the direction of plenty
of glass and gilding, and he liked his colours
bright.

** My husband and I find the rooms comfortable
enough' said she carelessly.

*' Ah yes, so you've got another hus  I
mean you've married since I saw you last.

I saw it ill the papers. I'm sure I hope he
he suits you pretty well."

*' Perfectly, thank you. He is an invalid,
and I only see him when I wish to do so."

'* Hullo !" And Smith, who was fidgeting
round the room, stopped short and stared at
her. " You've got on, haven't you, since 
since "

Since you gave me my first lesson in the
duties of a wife ? Yes."

He cast at her one sidelong look out of his
round black eyes, like a convicted goblin, and
then continued his aimless promenade round
the room, while Madeline sat down in an
armchair and took off her fur cape. When
he drew near to the side of the room where
she was sitting he stopped, looked at himself
in the glass, and carefully smoothed down
with his not too clean hand a little feather-like
tuft of wiry black hair which always stood out
from the crown of his head unsubdued by the
rarely applied comb. Then he laughed with
some effort as he spoke again.

*' You always were a rum 'un, Madeline,
and at the best of times one never knew whereto

have you. But this heats all  that it
does." And he laughed again.

''I don't quite understand' said she.

'' Why, to go and marry a swell quite
regular, with license and cake and everything
in style, knowing all the while that there
was a poor devil knocking about somewhere
whom you'd promised to love, honour, and
obey in Islington church half a score of
years before."

He put it quite plaintively, but Madeline
only laughed in her turn ; and, with some
fear of a woman's foolish fancy for raking up
old scores, he added quickly : " But there, I
know I was a bit hasty and irritable at times
ewe all are, more or less ; and of course it
was very natural that you should feel it, being
such a fine-looking woman as you where  and
as you are still, for the matter of that. And
I'm not one to make a fuss over every trifling
irregularity. But  but to  to ask your first
husband to step in, in a friendly way, and
have a chat, just as if nothing had happened,
in the very house where your second husband
is nursing himself in security, why  why, it

shows a positive want of delicacy, Madeline,
that it does."

And Mr. Smith, alias Meredith, pulled out
his handkerchief and passed it over his forehead
; for injured delicacy had made him
warm.

"' I'm so sorry you think that," said
Madeline, leaning back in her chair, and
drawing a footstool towards her. ' ' But perhaps
you will forgive me when I tell you that
nothing is further from my thoughts than to
talk to you 'just as if nothing had happened.'
I wanted to speak to you because a lot of
extremely strange things have happened since
I had the pleasure of promising to love,
honour, and obey you in Islington church, and
because I want to know just v/hat share you,
and a certain gentleman whose name I don't
think I need mention, have had in bringing
those strange things about."

At the words " certain gentleman " Mr.
Smith grew suddenly quite quiet, and successfully
abstracted every trace of expression from
his round face.

I shall be very happy' to give you any

information in my power, but I haven't the
least idea who the mysterious * certain gentleman
' is."

Well, we won't waste any time over that.
The gentleman I mean is your accomplice,
Louis de Breteuil. Now you know quite
well that I'm not afraid of you, so what is
the use of going through all that silly pantomime
T' she asked calmly, as Meredith began
to dance, and to make little threatening runs
at her. " I know that you two are still
linked together ; I know that he is still living
luxuriously in Paris on the proceeds of your
combined knaveries ; I know that you have
for some years filled the post of traveller for
the firm of Fournier and Beresford in order to
veil your robberies, and to give you opportunities
for more ; I know that the railway
robbery was your work "

' Then if you know so much, what the
deuce is there you want to know more ?" interrupted
Meredith, whose eyes, as round and
black and bright as a toad's, were now shining
out of a moist red face, as he stood
watching her cruel face in terror.

'* I want to know why Mr. Shaw was
murdered."

' Good gracious !"

The very mildness of this exclamation, in
the face of such a terrible implied accusation,
was an emphatic protest against the injustice
of it.

"After such a haul as you made by the
robbery of Blair's <12,000, the comparatively
trifling amount which a prudent man like this
poor Mr. Shaw would have had about him
cannot have had much attraction for either of
you. I am sure that robbery was not your
object : I want to know what was."

As she took not the least notice of his expressions
of indignant astonishment, Meredith
suddenly changed his tone, drew forward a
chair, and, seating himself in front of her,
put his spectacles on his nose and his hands
on his knees, and examined her face, with his
head tilted back, and a look of genial amusement
on his face.

It's too funny, simply too fanny," said heat
last, when his effrontery had had its intended
effect of making Madeline impatient

VOL. II. 25

and restless. ** Here's a good lady who has
married three gentlemen in succession, without
troubling herself about the fact that two
of those unions were illegal ; then, when she
comes across the original and only genuine
husband, she thinks herself entitled to bring
him to book' He drew his chair a little
nearer to her, and continued, wagging his
head from side to side as he spoke, in a particularly
irritating manner : ' Now look here,
our days of connubial bliss are over, and so's
your right to henpeck me. It isn't likely
I'm going to tell tales out of school to please
you at this time of day. And if I were to
confess to you that I'd murdered "  he
shuddered at the word  '* half the stockbrokers
in Europe, it wouldn't do a bit of
good, except to satisfy your idle curiosity,
since a wife can't witness against her husband.
And you are my wife, Madame de ,
and I've only got to open my
mouth to have you up for bigamy, so there !"
But you won't do that : it would take a
stronger inducement than that to make you
appear in a court of justice in any character."

'all right, all right; perhaps it would.
But now, aren't you a silly woman to go
poking your nose into things that don't concern
you in the least, when the very best
thing that can happen to you is to be entirely
forgotten by  by certain people in whose
affairs you seem determined to meddle ?
You've heard the proverb ' Let sleeping dogs
lie,' and if you had heard certain words
which  which certain people made use of in
Paris ten years ago, when you turned so
unaccountably nasty, I think you would seethe
advantage of leaving well alone."

'* Did you ever hear the words I made use
of on that occasion ?"

Oh yes, the nonsense a sensible woman
will speak in a passion, and be ashamed of
when she comes to herself."

This particularly unwise speech made
Madeline's cheeks glow and her eyes flash.

Exactly," she assented, speaking under
strong self-restraint. " But, as even a sensible
woman may object to see crimes committed
with impunity under her very nose, I
shall call upon Mr. Beresford, and put him in

252

possession of certain facts in the history of his
confidential clerk."

This blow struck home. Meredith jumped
up with a deep-drawn breath, and his fist
raised in exasperation which, however, was
more comical than alarming to Madeline, who
only looked up and nodded calmly as an
assurance that she was in earnest.

*'If you do " he growled; and he

stopped and looked in her face with most careful
scrutiny. Then, as if satisfied, he dropped
his fist and sat down again.

You think I don't mean what I say ; but
you are mistaken. Or perhaps you fancy
that your credit is so good with Mr. Beresford
that he will believe nothing against you ?
There I think you are mistaken again. Your
employer is a selfish, avaricious man, willing
to shut his eyes to irregularities on your part
which don't concern him and his business.
But commercial smartness is not the same
thing as robbery preceded by murder ; and if
Mr. Beresford were once to understand that
you had had a hand in the death of Mr,
Shaw "

' Before God, Madeline, I had not !" burst
out the little man, who was by this time
shaking from head to foot. '' I had nothing
to do with it  I know nothing about it. I
was shocked. It came upon me Hke a
thunderbolt. Oh, Madeline, you've seen the
worst of me !  now, be honest, was I ever
cruel r

He had risen, and was leaning against the
rail of the chair he had occupied, bending
over it, and speaking with most genuine
earnestness and anxiety. Madeline did not
look at him, but her mouth quivered. Something
in his pleading voice, his momentary
sincerity, recalled the old days of their brief
married life together, his impulsive remorse
after some one of his numerous backsliding,
the difficulty she used to feel in assuming fora
few minutes that hardness which was now
her natural attitude to all the world. She
sprang up, walked quickly to one of the two
windows, threw it open, and looked out at
the masts and funnels of the ships that lined
the quay. It was a dark dull night, and the
wind was rising. Meredith followed her to

the window, and as she turned suddenly, she
found herself so close to him that she uttered
a hoarse cry. Before she could pass he put
out his hands to detain her, and, shrinking
with disgust from his touch, she stopped.

' Madeline, you must believe this  I will
have you believe this," he said, dropping from
his voice and manner the crust of coarseness
which, at first assumed as an affectation, was
now the result of years of companionship
with his inferiors in education. '* There is
only one of the Commandments I've never
broken  I've never helped to break : I've
never lifted up my hand against any man's life.
And there is one oath I've kept and mean to
keep ; and that is to stand by the man who's
stood by me. Not much to take pride in, I
dare say you think. But one creed is as good
as another if you stick to it, and that's mine.
And if you tell on me to old Beresford, you'll
simply lose him a good clerk and take away
from me the one honest occupation I've got,
which I might have settled down to entirely
one of these days. And as for hurting Louis
de Breteuil by this slapdash sort of accusation,

it's like catching a bird by putting salton
its tail. To rush about and proclaim that
a certain man is a murderer won't hang him,
my dear."

' No ; if it were so easy as that, the excitement
wouldn't be strong enough to be worth
the trouble."

And the flexible red mouth, so passionate,
so changeful in the old days, became straight
with the horrible resolution of a sensual
nature grown hard and cruel. Meredith
absolutely shivered as he looked at her.

' And do you  do  do you mean to  to
tell me," he stammered in a low voice, '* that
you  you would send a man to the gallows
'pour passer h temps?"

*' Not quite that. But the most turbulent
life is better than stagnation, and I am not
sorry that chance has reminded me of an old
grudge to be paid off by throwing me across
the path of my creditors."

** One of them. If you were to come
across the other you wouldn't get off so well.
Look here, Madeline, you'd better get your
husband to buy you a couple of new dresses,

and forget all about me and  the other one.
You let us alone, and well let you alone. I
don't want any harm to come to you, and I
don't exactly know why, for you're a vindictive
devil as ever I've met ; but still, for
the sake of  well, I don't exactly know what,
for we never were very comfortable together,
and no wonder, considering how you've
turned out. Still, there's a spirit in you I
like, and what I say to you is : Humbug
about here if you like ; go and worry old
Beresford, try to set my employers against me,
if you like  remember I've got the ear of
both the money-grubbing old boys  but for
God's sake don't try to meet De Breteuil.
I'm only a human blackguard, but he is  the
devil."

And Meredith took up from the table the
shabby, low crowned, curly-brimmed round
hat which was his habitual and most unbecoming
headgear, nodded to Madeline in
exactly the same awkward would-be careless
manner with which, during their married life
together, he used to leave her to go out in
the evening '' to see a man who'd got a tip,"

and opened the door. Half-way along the
corridor he met a tall gentleman with a gray
moustache, who stared at him, but in a
manner too dignified to be called impertinent.
Mr. Smith touched his hat to him, and
hm-red along, wondering how Madeline would
explain his own visit. '' Old chap worships
her, I suppose ; and he might be at the
bottom of the sea for what she cares ; so
might I. But De Breteuil  I'll be hanged
if I know whether she isn't fond of him still.
Queer creatures, women." These reflections
lasted till he reached the platform, where he
found that his train had gone ; however, he
started for Boulogne by the next, and it was
some weeks before Mr. Smith again made his
appearance in Calais or its neighbourhood.

The ten days following the night of Mr.
Shaw's murder were spent in investigation by
the police, in arresting and releasing various
persons who had no connection with the
affair, and in interrogating all those people
who had had any intercourse whatever with
Mr. Shaw on the day of his death. Gerald,
Mr. Beresford, and Mr. Smith were the only

people who could tell anything of importance ;
but the first was ill of concussion of the brain,
the last had disappeared with the telegraphic
excuse to his employers that urgent family
affairs required his presence in England ; so
that Mr. Beresford's sensational announcement
that the dead man had had in his
possession a clue to the perpetrators of the
robbery in the train was the only important
piece of evidence forthcoming. Mr. Shaw's
eldest son, a coldhearted young fellow, with
the manners of a groom, who had been most
carefully educated without learning anything
at all, came over to Calais, to call at " Les
Bouleaux " to see Mr. Beresford and to take
his father's body back to England when the
inquest was over. He behaved very well,
poor perplexed young man, looking dignified
for the first time in his life as he stood, in his
long travelling ulster, silenced by his grief
and by his ignorance of the French language,
listening by the hour to explanations and
declarations by first one official and then
another, none of whom could tell him more
than he knew  that his father had been foully

murdered, no one knew by whom. So lie
left a kind, indifferently spelt letter at the
house of M. Fournier, to be given to Gerald
as soon as he was better, and returned with
his solemn freight to England. And there
were more investigations, and more interrogatories,
and at the end of a fortnight
Gerald, having sufficiently recovered from his
illness, had his evidence taken down and his
careful description of the murderer. On
being asked whether the face was like anyone
he had seen before, the young man at first
hesitated, but finally said *' No," and persisted
in that answer.

But when, a fortnight after the murder,
Madame de Lancry called to learn how he
was, and, finding him convalescent, broached
the subject of that night's adventures, he was
more communicative, and on her pressing
him to be frank with her, he confessed that
the face he had seen bending over him in the
darkness had struck him by its likeness to
Victor Fournier.

It was only a likeness in the features,
you understand, madame, and I think he was

a much older man than Victor : but he had
just the same type of thin aquiline features,
and a small black moustache like Victor's."

Madame de Lancry looked at him, and
listened attentively.

' Had you ever seen the man before ?" she
asked.

* Never, madame."

*' Ah V She got up and walked about the
room, looking at the objects around her,
glancing now and then at Gerald, whose
languid interest in the matter under discussion,
though scarcely surprising so soon
after his illness, irritated and astonished her.
At last she stopped in front of him, such a
majestic figure in her trained gown of black
brocade glistening with hanging drops of jet,
that the pause she made before speaking
rendered her slow, grave words doubly impressive.


'* What would you say," she asked
solemnly, '' if I were to tell you that the
object you hold dearest in life is intimately
connected with the discovery of Mr. Shaw's
murderer ?"

Gerald started, and his face grew very
white.

*' Why, what has she to do with it ?" he
faltered quickly, in a husky voice.

** She !" said Madame de Lancry, in a
deep voice that sounded like distant thunder
to the poor lad, who grew suddenly as red ashe
had been white, and hung his head, and
fidgeted with the tassel of the sofa-cushion like
a corrected child.

'I mean  I mean," said he, clearing his
throat, '* that I do not understand you,
madame."

'' You told me, not three weeks ago  but
you very young men measure your constancy,
your convictions, by minutes, I know," she
interpolated scornfully  *' that the one object
of your life was to clear your father's
name from the suspicion which still hangs
over it."

Gerald started again. *' Yes, yes, so it
is," he said quickly, his thin face burning and
quivering with half a dozen strong and strange
emotions as he heard her.

Madame de Lancry watched the sensitive

and ingenuous face steadily, and said, in a low
deep voice, the very tone of which kept him
spell-bound : ** Find the murderer of Mr.
Shaw  and you will have found the man
who robbed and murdered your father."

The shock of this declaration, made to him
while he was still weak from illness, was too
much for Gerald. He looked up in her, face
quite steadily for a moment longer, and then
his body fell forward, and he was only prevented
by the quick clasp of her strong arms
from falling to the floor. Her first impulse,
even then, was indignant contempt at the
weakness of a nature which was not braced
up instead of shaken by a statement so overwhelming.
But as she put her arm round
the young man's shoulder, and laid his damp
head back gently on to the cushions of the
sofa, the old emotion of tenderness, which
she had not now known for years, woke up
in the woman's breast again, and she remembered
the time when thoughts of love
were foremost in her too.

*poor boy!" she whispered kindly; and
as she touched his hair with her lips with

motherly gentleness the door opened, and
Victor came in.

He had just returned home from the
factory, and, on hearing that Madame de
Lancry was in the salon, he had hurried to
the room in eager haste, for his admiration
for this somewhat inaccessible lady was increasing
every day. Of course he affected
not even to have seen her caressing attitude
near Gerald, although she scarcely altered it
on his entrance; but when she left, after a
few remarks to Victor, in which she did not
forget to congratulate him on his approaching
marriage, the young Frenchman turned
almost savagely to Gerald, and said disagreeably
:

'* She might have spared a little of her
sympathy for me, linked as I shall be tomorrow
to the most ill-tempered specimen of
boldness and prudery your fog-smothered
country has ever produced !"

Gerald looked hurt and angry, but he only
said, after a pause, " To-morrow ?"

** Yes, tomorrow. Old Beresford is going
to give a confounded betrothal-dinner, to tie

us up by anticipation, you know ; he lias
grown very solicitous since my aunt's death
the other day."

This was an allusion to the fact that a rich
widowed sister of M. Fournier's, a lady who
had been for some years in delicate health,
had died within the last week in the south of
France, leaving the bulk of her property to
her nephew Victor.

Gerald listened, but made no answer ; and
when, some few minutes later, Victor, not
finding him a lively companion, left him
alone, he remained for some time in the attitude
he had assumed on first hearing the
news, leaning forward with his elbows on his
knees and his hands clasped loosely together.
Presently he got up with red eyes and tremulous
lips, and walking unsteadily towards the
mantelpiece, saw that it was three o'clock.

'* There's lots of time for me to get there
before they have dinner," he said to himself;
* and of course I really ought to make some
inquiries and bestir myself, after what
Madame de Lancry said."

So he went in search of Madame Fournier,

told her with tears of gratitude for her kindness
in his eyes that he must go back to
'* Les Bouleaux " that day, and show Mr.
Beresford that he was fit for work again 
which he evidently was not  and started in a
small hired omnibus within half an hour of
making up his mind.

The drive was full of horrible reminiscences
to him, but as he drew near to * Les
Bouleaux " his agitation increased from
another cause. Suddenly, within a few yards
of the entrance to the avenue, he shouted to
the driver to stop, and got out of the omnibus.
For he had caught sight of a little dark figure
that started forward out of the open gate to
meet him.

VOL. II. 26

On seeing Peggy waiting for him at the white
gate of the avenue, Gerald checked the
impulse which had made him run a few steps
towards her, and deliberately paid and dismissed
the driver of the omnibus before he
even looked at her again. Then he raised
his hat and walked slowly and rather stiffly
towards where she was standing. He felt
very nervous, and grew alternately hot and
cold as he came near her ; but in spite of the
agitation which made him for the first time
shy in her presence, he could not help thinking
what a very odd welcome she was giving
him.

For, instead of returning the smile his face
wore as he advanced, she stood looking at
him gravely and as he thought coldly until

lie was within a few paces ; then he held out
his hand, and with one fierce little stare she
quickly threw her arms behind her and
clasped her fingers tightly together behind
her back. Gerald stopped, utterly disconcerted.


** Miss Beresford V he stammered.

But this brought on the climax. She
turned her back upon him abruptly, and
marched down the avenue towards the house
as fast as her small feet could witty proper
dignity carry her. For a moment he stood
where she had left him, too much bewildered
to follow ; then he ran after her, and, keeping
by her side as she walked on without taking
the least notice of his presence except to turn
her head the other way, he pleaded for an explanation
with all his shyness dissolved in
consternation.

* Miss Beresford ! Miss Beresford !
What is the matter ? What have I done ?
Why do you treat me like this ? Won't you
speak to me ? Peggy ! for goodness' sake
don't go on like this ! Didn't you want me
ever to come back, didn't you ?" he panted,

262

growing rather exhausted in these combined
mental and physical efforts.

But still she took not the slightest notice
of him. So he gathered himself together
for one last appeal, and said, catching his
breath :

' Well, I  I can't run after you any more,
because I've just been ill ; but it's very unkind
of you, and I thought you had more heart."

She stopped short and turned upon him
fiercely, and he saw to his great astonishment
that she was actually shaking with rage.

' Unkind ! You call me unkind ! When
I've been lying awake every night thinking
about you, and walking up and down this
avenue all day long whenever I could get
away from them, because I didn't dare to ask
when you were coming back, and I  I hoped,
I  I always hoped to see you coming ; and
then at last when you do come, you  you
pretend not to see me, and  and  you have
a long conversation with the omnibus driver
I saw you  I saw you  and then walk upto
me as stiffly and coldly as if I were a
chance acquaintance. And when I'm just

going to be married to that hateful Victor,
too ! Oh, it is you who are unkind !"

And she laid her head down on the black
palings that ran along the right side of the
avenue, and sobbed. After a few minutes,
however, as Gerald did not attempt to
comfort her, as she had expected, she raised
her head to look at him. The expression of
his face made her leave off crying ; but a
mere look of pain in a man's eyes won't
satisfy the least exacting of women, and she
said in a querulous voice, as she dried her
eyes : " You might say something nice to me,
Gerald, when I'm so miserable, and all about
you."

' I  I don't know what to say to you,"
stammered he, in a strangled voice, looking
over her head.

Well, say you're glad to see me," said
she, coming a step nearer to him and glancing
up most piteously.

'' Of course I'm not glad to see you when
you're miserable," he answered impatiently.

'* Well, but I can't dance and sing and
laugh when I'm unhappy."

*' Then I don't want to see you till you are
happy again."

*' That means that you never want to seeme
again, then, for I shall be miserable for
the rest of my life."

Then Gerald looked down at her, for her
tone of childish complaint had changed to
that of a woman's despair. He was surprised
and shocked to see how old her face had
suddenly become. She was no longer petulant,
she was hopeless. In this mood, however,
he could trust himself to talk to her.

*' What do you mean T' he asked, in a
voice that was not quite steady.

*I  I don't think I ought to trouble you
by telling you," said she, with sudden reticence.
'* "We will talk about it by-and-by,
another time, when you are quite well. Now
I think we had better go in, hadn't Vve ?
For it can't be long before dinner-time."

Gerald assented, and they walked on
together rather awkwardly. The young girl
seemed shy and ashamed of herself, and she
talked very fast about trifling matters,
scarcely waiting for the short answers he was

able to give her. As they stepped inside the
hall her manner suddenly changed again, and
she said in a low and broken voice, hanging
her head :

*' I am sorry I was so impatient and rude.
But since that night  you know "  and they
both shivered  ' this house has been worse
than haunted. I've become hysterical,
foolish, idiotic. You'll forgive me, won't
you ?"

She did not hold out her hand with her
natural frank and impulsive coquetry ; she
kept her eyes on the tiled floor and played
with the buttons of her ulster. Gerald looked
down at her black velvet hat. She heard
him breathing heavily, and the next moment
she heard his voice close to her ear.

'* Yes, I forgive you, I'd forgive you anything.
But  it kills me to see you unhappy,"
he whispered gruffly; *'I can't bear it; I'd
jump into the sea to make you lively and
bright again  you know I would, you must
know."

She looked up. But no sooner had his
last words fallen from his lips than he turned

away from her, and slunk off quickly towards
the staircase. She made one step to follow
him, and stopped as the salon door opened.

'' Who's that r asked Miss M'Leod's thin
little voice ; * surely I heard Gerald's step."

'* Yes, he's come ; he's just gone upstairs,"
said Peggy quietly ; and she followed
the housekeeper, who overflowed with voluble
comments on the unceremonious manner of
his reappearance among them, up the staircase
to dress for dinner.

Gerald had reached his room in such a disturbed
state of mind that for a few minutes
he could only march up and down the narrow
promenade between his bed and the heavy
wardrobe which took up the greater part of
the rest of the apartment, without any more
distinct idea in his head than that he was
suffering horribly. But when he reached the
door for about the tenth time he stopped
short, and bent his head to listen to the sound
of women's footsteps coming up the stairs.
The precise trot-trot of the pair of feet that
reached the landing first had no particular
effect on him, though their owner, Miss

M'Leod, had been his staunch friend ever
since his coming to '' Les Bouleaux." But
those lighter, slower, glazier steps that
followed, dragging wearily over the waxed
carpeted corridor, seemed to fall one by one
on his own heart as he leaned against the
door, with the hot glow of passion on his
face, and his damp hand fixed firmly on the
handle, that no slightest vibration of the old
boards should deaden for one moment the
light footfall that was music to him. He
stood there in the ecstasy of a young man's
first passion, not in the least understanding
how it was that his short, feverish, unsatisfactory
interview of ten minutes ago with
Peggy had ripened what had been the haunting
fancy of his illness into a fiery yearning
which made him kiss the very wall which lay
nearest to her room, although Miss M'Leod's
apartment, presumably a non-conductor of the
love-current, interposed between the chamber
where the young madman was now frantically
cuddling a withered sprig of palm-blossom
which he had regarded with comparatively
calm interest at the time his darling had

given it to him a fortnight ago, and the room
where Peggy herself, in a fit of despair at the
position of human affairs, was lying face
downwards on the bed, and wishing that
stupid, unresponsive Gerald had remained in
Calais.

For all the woman was not awake in her
yet, and she did not quite know why she had
been so anxious for Gerald's return, and so
disappointed at the manner of it. And she
went downstairs to dinner feeling sulky and
ill-used, and would have been quite rude in
her coldness to Gerald if he had not studiously
abstained from so much as looking at
her, and confined his attention throughout
dinner entirely to his employer and Miss
MXeod.

The young clerk's return was such a
welcome relief to the gloom into which Mr.
Shaw's tragic death had plunged the entire
household, that everybody in the house made
some sort of attempt to celebrate his return,
from Mr. Beresford, who broke through his
usual parsimony so far as to replace the daily
vin ordinaire by a bottle of inferior St. Julien,

clown to Henri the coachman, who blacked
all M. Gerald's boots and shoes, polished
them into an unaccustomed brightness, and
placed them in an imposing row along the
wall outside the young gentleman's door.
The flattering nature of this action was due
to the fact that it had never been properly
decided whether the blacking was Pierre's or
Henri's work, and, to avoid conflicts, Gerald
more often than not did the work himself.

Gerald's bold policy of ignoring the girl
who had set his heart on fire answered admirably
as long as dinner lasted. Miss M'Leod
always presided at the table, owing to Mr.
Beresford's infirmity. The master of the
house sat at her left hand, and had that side
of the table all to himself, so that Pierre
could minister to his wants quite unimpeded.
Opposite to him were the chairs of his
daughter and the young clerk, the latter being
nearest to Miss M'Leod.

On this occasion Gerald did not absolutely
neglect his small neighbour, for he passed her
the mustard, and saved her from a blow with
a plate which Delphine, who had not yet

overcome a rough-and-ready manner of waiting
at table, was on the point of accidentally
administering ; but he did not address one
word to her, and she revenged herself by refusing
to laugh at small jokes of his which
Miss M'Leod received quite hilariously, and
by staring in moody and hostile silence at the
green shade over her father's eyes, without
showing the least interest in an account of
the reported discovery of gold mines in Sicily,
which Gerald had read about in the morning-papers,
and to which the avaricious old paralytic
listened with avidity.

But when they all adjourned to the inner
salon, and Mr. Beresford, refusing the offer of
himself as an opponent, which Gerald
hastened to make, sat down to chess with
Miss M'Leod  to whom he had to give four
to six pieces, beating her easily again and
again under those conditions  Gerald's
brilliancy suddenly evaporated on finding
himself thus left to entertain the remaining
lady. Having placed her favourite chair by
the fire for her in her favourite position, and
received in acknowledgment the coldest,

most perfunctory of "Thank you's," he sat
down opposite to her, took up the last
number of the Graphic, which Mr. Beresford
received weekly from England, and asked, ina
voice of such well-acted indifference that it
sounded absolutely uncivil, whether she had
finished reading it.

*' Yes, thank you," said she, in a tremulous
voice, looking at him at last, with eyes
so expressive of surprise and pain at his curtness
that Gerald fancied the instinctive movement
he made towards her must have
attracted the attention of everyone in the
room.

He glanced at the pair at the chessboard.

Miss MXeod had chirped out '' Check,"
making the slight mistake of taking a bishop
for her queen. Mr. Beresford, who had to
play with his left hand, had taken the erring
bishop with a knight, chuckling as he did so.
The opponents were now rejoicing together
over this feat, for the devoted little housekeeper
was always good-humouredly pleased
when her own imbecile play afforded her
employer a minute's cheap satisfaction.

Gerald glanced back from the elderly pair
intent on their game to the face of the girl
sitting opposite to him ; he could only see a
very little of it, just the outline of her cheek
as she looked away from him, intent apparently
on a book which was lying open on her
lap. He was growing very hot, very miserable,
and he turned over the leaves of the
Graphic with staring eyes which criticised the
pictures carefully, and read the words underneath
them, but without taking in their
meaning. No attempt at concentrating his
attention could blind him to the fact that
Peggy never turned a page, and presently he
heard a faint sound that deadened his senses
to everything else ; it was the fall of a tear
on to the book on her knee.

Now, this new love of his he had already
recognised as a temptation which must be
wrestled with, subdued, and then ignored if
possible : for to cherish it, and, as it were,
take it out from time to time to be looked at,
was, he knew, quite incompatible with keeping
it a profound secret from the girl who had
inspired it. This resolution was an excellent

one, and, if it had not been for that tear, it
might have stood firm at least until the
following morning ; but as it was, the voluptuous
anguish of watching the poor little lady
whom he would fain have been comforting,
as her small fingers stole to her pocket, drew
out her handkerchief, and passed it furtively
across her eyes, was an indulgence not to be
resisted ; and so it came to pass that when
Peggy gave a hasty glance round her to
assure herself that her outbreak had not been
noticed, her eyes met Gerald's and read in them
a most eloquent message. She turned away
her head again with a blush, but she could
not lose the consciousness of his gaze, and
after a few seconds she rose quickly and left
the room.

Gerald could hear her steps on the polished
floor of the outer salon, and after one vain
attempt to compose himself to reading, he let
his paper drop on to the floor, and stole quietly
into the next room. There was a lamp thereon
one of the side-tables, and he saw that
Peggy had pulled aside the blind, and was
looking out of the long French window.

She heard him coming, but she did not turn
round.

What were you crying for?" he whispered
very gently.

I wasn't crying."

This was a cul-de-sac, Gerald went back
and tried another opening.

'rare there many people coming tomorrow
?"

Yes, I believe so. Priests and Levite
and all the necessary functionaries."

"You mean  that it is a sacrifice  this
engagement ?" said he, with hesitation, after a
pause.

'' Of course it is. Poor Victor !"

But, Peggy, you know  you know the
dinner tomorrow doesn't bind you to anything
; it doesn't oblige you to marry a man
you really dislike."

To Gerald's discomfiture, this kindly-meant
suggestion brought down upon him an
avalanche of wrath.

I dislike !" she echoed, turning upon him
in amazement much more haughty than if she
had been an empress. '' I don't understand

yon, Mr. Staunton. Do you think I should
have accepted M. Fournier if I had not loved
him r

For a moment Gerald was overwhelmed.
But her wild and inconsistent behaviour
irritated him so much in his excitable and
feverish mood, that he at last exclaimed with
sudden passion :

'' I'm sorry I misunderstood you. I might
have expected that you would express your
love, as you do your other feelings, in some
eccentric manner."

He was torn with remorse the next
moment ; for without looking at him, without
answering him, she thrust down her head into
her little hands, and, with one long sob that
seemed to vibrate in his own heart, she ran
quickly past him and out of the room.

He was ready to dash his head against the
wall by this time, and after a futile rush in
pursuit of her, hearing the housekeeper's
piping voice calling to know what the floor-scraping
and door-slamming was about, he
escaped into the garden.

The young fellow had no suspicion of the

VOL. II. 27

reason for Peggy's strange conduct, and it
would have been very hard to make him
believe that the feeling which prompted her
to be rude and fierce and disagreeable was
but a stage of the same infatuation which
caused his own hands to tremble when he
came near her, and his face to glow with
illogical adoration when the precious opportunity
arrived of watching her unobserved.
But the strongest impression her extravagant
behaviour left upon him, as he marched up
and down the sandy paths under the poplar
and birch trees, was that she was unhappy,
and that he had been most selfishly impatient
with her.

** Poor little thing ! poor little thing !'' he
murmured to himself, as he drew near the
swing and pulled the cord gently backwards
and forwards, in tender memory of their
morning's amusement there a fortnight ago.
** She doesn't care for Victor, whatever she
may say  and what is more, I don't believe

she ever will. At least I'm afraid If I

were only rich ! If I only had the brains to
make myself rich some day ! If I could only

think  God ! what's the good of thinking,
when it all can only end one way ? I must
go grinding on at my thirty shillings a week,
and think myself lucky to get that, while she is
married away to a man she doesn't care about,
just because he can give her a lot of handsome
dresses that she doesn't want. And all
the while I believe she would be as happy asa
bird in a cottage out there on the sandstones,
with  with anybody who would pet
her and love her as  Oh, well, it's no good
thinking about it !"

And with much effort and some shame, he
turned his thoughts to the strange revelation
made to him that afternoon by Madame de
Lancry. She had given him no proof of her
strange assertion that his father and Mr. Shaw
had been murdered by the same man, no
slightest clue to help him in tracking the man
down. The shock of her words had been so
great as to render him incapable at the time
of framing any question as to the course he
ought to pursue, and after some thought he
decided that the first step to take was to see
little Jules, and question him as to what he

272

had seen on the night when he had been
pulled out screaming and struggling frowns
under the dead bushes and grasses of the
wood near 'Les Bouleaux."

*' He took me for Monnier/' Gerald reflected,
*' and he had evidently seen something
which Monnier did not wish him to see.
The old rascal is mixed up somehow with
this awful business, I know. Perhaps this
little urchin can put me on the scent. I
wish I had questioned him the very next
day."

The mistake he had made in not doing so
was soon apparent ; for on arriving at the
miserable little two-roomed cabin which la
mere Benoit had shared with her grandson and
some remarkably long-legged and unproductive
fowls, he found it tenantless. He struck
a match and examined both the damp
draughty rooms : they looked scarcely more
bare and comfortless than before. In one,
the ashes of a small fire were still on the
hearth ; in both, the miserable furniture, not
worth the trouble of carrying away, remained
to prove the independence of the very poor.

There was just enough dust, just enough disorder
in the wretched wreck of a home to
show that the thrifty old woman had left it
never to return ; and Gerald walked out into
the open air again with a foreboding that this
departure was Monnier's work, and that the
reason must he a grave one.

After a few minutes' thought he walked in
the direction of the gamekeeper's dwelling.
That the man himself would be impenetrable
he knew ; but if Babette should chance to be
in a good humour, he might learn something
from her. She generally spent the evenings
of the colder months knitting quietly in the
cottage in the company of her grandmother,
an insipid, silent, and prematurely aged
woman who counted for little in the household
: her father was usually away, in more
lively society, at the cabaret. Gerald did not
hope much from this visit, and his first peep
into the cottage, when Madame Monnier herself
opened the door, did not tend to encourage
him.

For the gamekeeper was smoking by the
fire, and Babette was not there.

A CEY broke from old Madame Monnier's lips
as Gerald entered the gamekeeper's cottage.
She was silenced by two words from her surly
son, who, in his seat by the fire, just pulled
off his cap and took his pipe for a moment
from his mouth in ungracious welcome, while
the old woman brought forward a chair for
the young gentleman, still staring at him
with vacant mistrust.

** What's the matter, granny?" said he,
putting his hand gently on her arm. Madame
Monnier, who, by the way, looked scarcely
older or more weatherbeaten than her son,
was not reputed to be overburdened with wits;
and the feeble friendliness she usually showed
to Gerald was considered an unflattering
preference.

This evening, however, something had
evidently happened to trouble her weak wits,
for she drew herself away from his touch,
mumbling incoherently and in a low voice.

*' Don't mind her," said the gamekeeper
sharply ; and he signed to her that her
presence was no longer wanted, with an extra
wrinkle in his ugly face which caused her to
shuffle hastily into the next room,

'* What's your business, monsieur ?" he
then asked.

But that was the very last thing that
Gerald would have thought of disclosing to
him. So he said he wanted to hear whether
la meres rheumatism was better, and what had
become of Babette. At this mention of the
girl's name the gamekeeper's little eyes
fastened on him ; but the subject had lost
much of its interest to Gerald lately, and
although he grew red under Monnier's keen
glance, he was not much disconcerted
by it.

*' My mother's rheumatism is no better ;
she can't expect it at her age. And Babette
why, she's gone away  to service."

*' To service!" repeated Gerald, in astonishment.


"Yes; why not? I don't approve of
keeping a great strapping girl idle at home,
to have her head turned by some philandering
fool, while her old father is out toiling to
keep her in luxury'

*soh!" said Gerald quite simply-the
gamekeeper's speech had ignored all the facts
of the case so completely that assent and
dissent were alike out of the question. He
wondered whether he himself was the '' philandering
fool " alluded to, or whether the
term was meant for the stranger he had
seen with Babette. And then his vague
fear grew stronger that the girl was in someway
linked with the man about whom he had
such grave suspicions ; and Gerald, who had
no skill in hiding his feelings, found himself
returning the gamekeeper's sidelong looks
with a wide stare of open mistrust. As
soon as he became conscious of this the
young fellow started up, hot and uncomfortable
; he knew that he had failed as a detective,
so he threw ois the character.

'' Look here, Monnier," said he, leaiimg-
against the high stone chimney piece and
uneasily kicking one of the burning logs, with
his eyes fixed on the fire, '' I wish you would
tell me where she's gone. I don't want to
go after her, you needn't think that  Babette
and I were always great chums, you know,
and of course we're not children now ; but
I can't help feeling a great interest in her,
and  and I should really be awfully glad
to know that she  that she is all right, in
fact."

' Sacre-reste, monsieur!" growled the
gamekeeper, *'I should think if her father
is satisfied as to her safety, that is enough.
And it is very good of you to interest yourself
about her, but she is in better hands than 
yours." And he looked straight at Gerald
with mean and impudent suspicion in every
line of his face.

The young man grew red, with alarm as
well as anger. He thrust his hands into his
pockets and faced the older man steadily.

"Well, I can't make you speak," said he
after a minute's pause. " But I know somebody

who can. You know very well it's
nonsense to pretend you suspect my motives,
because you don't. I never had a motive in
my life that wasn't clean compared to the
best of yours. For you've something more
to account for than Babette's going away. I
saw you sneaking along the road from Calais
on the night of the murder, and it's my belief
you know something about it, you infernal
old fox !"

Gerald had meant to keep this suspicion a
dead secret ; but the sight of the gamekeeper,
doubled up as if to keep not only his mind
but his person as much to himself as possible,
blinking and squinting at him cautiously in
the firelight, so irritated the young man that
he blurted out ths accusing words almost
against his own will.

Monnier stuck out his lean pointed chin,
pursed up his blue lips, and blinked at his
visitor more persistently than ever, but without
giving any intimation that his sensitive
nature was wounded. Gerald's hands twitched
in his pockets during a rather awkward
silence. Then the injured one nodded his

head slowly two or three times with a cackling
laugh of generous contempt.

** It's very easy to come here," he began
mockingly, ** and to say hard words to a
poor old man when you find that his daughter
is no longer about to say soft ones to. And
you young gentlemen think poor men were
only made for you to kick, and poor women
for you to kiss'' Gerald looked as if on the
point of illustrating part of this theory. '' But
there is a heaven above, monsieur "

"Yes, and there's something else underneath,"
interrupted Gerald hotly, *' and you'll
get what you deserve some day, if you don't
now."

The saints watch over the innocent,
monsieur," said the gamekeeper with grotesque
resignation, 'rand you and your flaunting
madam won't get much out of your spying
visits here."

Gerald looked at him puzzled. Had
Madame de Lancry been here already ? And
had she failed, as entirely as he himself had
done, in extracting anything worth hearing
from the leather-skinned old rascal ? The

bewilderment on his face encouraged Monnier,
who went on in a much more assured tone :
I should like to know what your patron
Mr. Beresford would say, if I was to go
and complain of your hanging about hereafter
my girl ? Why, it would be enough to
get you turned out of his house, that it
would'

His righteous indignation carried him justa
little too far. Gerald, though simple
enough to be deceived by the blue-eyed young
girl, had seen through the craft of her less
fascinating father. So he said quietly :
"You've changed your tune very suddenly,
Monnier, after thanking me so warmly as you
did six weeks ago for my kindness to your
old mother and Babette. As you've grown
so suspicious, I'd better give you a chance of
making a proper complaint to Mr. Beresford."


For the first time the man was disconcerted.
His withered skin took a bluish tint, and his
knotty hands clutched the wooden sides of
his chair.

*come, M. Gerald," said he after a few

moments' pause, vitli a futile effort to be
genial, '* old friends like you and me don't
quarrel except in fun. I get lonely and
fretful now o' nights  I miss my daughter,"
he went on, ignoring the fact that when Babette
was at home he always spent his evenings at
the cabaret. " Far be it from me to say
a word that could harm you to M. Beresford.
It was all a boy and girl friendship between
you and Babette, I know ; though perhaps the
old patron, being so austere, might not see
how innocent it was."

From under his shaggy eyebrows he watched
Gerald, who, however, gave no sign of being
intimidated by this suggestion.

"I think he will see the matter in the
right light, Monnier," he said steadily; * at
any rate, I'll take my chance of that."

Turning quickly, with a strong sense of
having had enough of the gamekeeper's
society, the young man was already at the
door, when he felt the grip of a sinewy hand
upon his arm. Monnier's face was puckered
up into ugly wrinkles of fear and anxiety ashe
detained his guest.

** You wouldn't say anything to get a poor
old man into trouble, would you ?" said he,
with a most unattractive whine of blustering
entreaty. *i've been a good servant to M.
Beresford, but a word from a young gentleman
so high in his confidence as monsieur
might do me harm, which I'm sure I've
never deserved. And on mere suspicion, and
such childish suspicion too ! Monsieur would
surely never harm a poor old man "

Gerald tore himself away, opened the door,
and let himself out, without one more glance
at the blinking foxy eyes that watched him
furtively in the darkness as he dashed down
the narrow red-tiled garden-path and out
at the gate. As he turned into the road,
on his way back to '' Les Bouleaux," he
thought he heard a weak voice quavering
out his name : " M. Gerald." But he
paid no attention to the faint cry, almost
believing it to be the work of his fancy, until
he heard the cottage-door slammed by the
irritated gamekeeper, and immediately after
the footsteps of a woman on the road behind
him. He stopped, looked round, and found

himself face to face with old Madame Monnier.
Her manner was more wavering and witless
than ever, but she was in such piteous distress
that Gerald's heart was touched, and he
submitted to be clawed by her thin fingers
and to be treated to a long pointless discourse,
in which she alternately reviled him for
* taking her granddaughter away " and
implored him to ' * get her back from the
wolf."

** It's all right, la mere ; the wolf won't do
Babette any harm," said he soothingly.

He had no hope of learning anything from
the old woman's incoherent failings, and he
was startled when, after staring blankly into
his face for a few moments without speaking,
she croaked out : ' And they say Paris is
such a wicked place ! Oh, I have heard
such tales of what becomes of poor country
girls when they get there !"

Paris !" said Gerald, with suddenly vivid
interest. ' Has Babette gone to Paris, do
you say ?"

His vehemence frightened her, and it was
Bone minutes before he could get her to confess

that '' ce beau monsieur" had said she
would be quite safe there, and that she would
be rich and happy and a great lady.

At this confirmation of his worst fears concerning
his old playfellow, Gerald turned
upon the old woman so savagely that she
broke away from him and tottered back to
the gate of the cottage. He followed her
halfway up the garden-path, but as she
glanced in terror at the door, and gave him
no answer to his questions but disconnected
mumblings, he turned back impatiently, and
took a short cut to 'ales Bouleaux," with
his mind full of new anxiety. Everyone had
gone to bed, but as he crept softly upstairs to
his room, and paused a moment at the top of
the stairs, he fancied he heard a faint sound
of sobbing from Peggy's room. A throb of
tenderness in the young man's heart was succeeded
by an impulse of rage against the man
who was to be her husband.

' To give a girl like that to a fellow that
doesn't care for her ! How can Mr. Beresford
have the heart to do it ?" he thought to
himself bitterly, as he stole to his own room,

not for wholesome sleep, but for untimely
consideration of the hopeless muddle into
which human affairs seemed to have got.
After passing most of the night in reflections
which he considered philosophical, while they
were only love-sick, he of course came downstairs
on the following morning in the speediest
and sorriest of moods. He was glad Peggy
had not yet appeared; he gobbled up his
breakfast in a great hurry to be off to the
office, and was furious when Mr. Beresford,
in the fulness of his heart, sent down Pierre
to say that, as to-day was to be a fete
in honour of his daughter's engagement,
M. Gerald would please return from the
office in time to receive M. Beresford's
guests.

Gerald's face fell as he drove off to St.
Pierre. A ghastly tribe they would be, these
relations of the Fourniers, appalling in their
monotonous scandalmongering respectability.
However, there was nothing for it but to
submit ; so at half-past two the unlucky
young clerk returned to *' Les Bouleaux,"
and a little later he was seated in the outer

VOL. II. 28

salon, among antique spinster cousins, high-dried
and dull uncles and aunts, two or three
plump and effusive young girls of the boisterously
ingenuous sort, a couple of particularly
offensive spoilt children, and the Fourniers
themselves.

Mr. Beresford had retired to the inner salon
with a chosen pair of prosy old gentlemen
whom he left to entertain each other; his
feeble health was sufficient excuse for his
withdrawal from the clamour in the next
room, where poor Peggy had to undergo a
martyrdom in the midst of a group of ladies
who pulled her about like a doll, and asked
her questions suited to the intelligence of a
child of six, and found the unhappy little
foreigner very amusing. At last her patience
gave way, when a well-meaning sister of
Madame Fournier's asked her indulgently
whether she was not enchanted to find her
appointed husband so good - looking and
charming.

**No, madame," answered Peggy with
simple savagery, while her cheeks flushed
and her eyes blazed. ' A handsome husband

admires himself and charms other women ;
and nobody who pleases my father could
possibly please me."

To the intense relief of Gerald, who overheard
this appalling speech in the corner
where he was trying to restrain the naughtiest
of the spoilt children from hacking off the
knobs of a carved armchair with his penknife,
the ladies received it as a great joke and
repeated it to Victor ; and the young clerk
was unutterably thankful when half-past five
struck, and they all sat down to dinner in the
salle, and something even more interesting
than a half civilized bride at last drew their
attention from the unhappy Peggy.

The room was not very large, every corner
was quickly occupied ; Peggy jerked her own
chair violently into that of her right-hand
neighbour, and made room for Gerald on
her left.

*' Come and sit by me, Gerald," she
whispered eagerly, under cover of the clatter
and rustle of the general movement, ** and
then I needn't see so much of that smirking
chattering Frenchman." And she glanced at

282

Victor, who was charming the staid community
of relations by his vivacity, and collecting
materials for a burlesque of the whole
entertainment by and by.

Gerald sat down by her side, but he would
not talk to her. Her little sad, bewildered
face, as she sat silently amidst the babble,
moved him so much that he could scarcely
trust himself to look in her direction. He
was growing miserable and moonstruck, when
some words spoken at the other end of the
table roused his attention.

** And how is it Mr. Smith is not here today
?'' old M. Fournier was asking.

** Oh, he couldn't get back here in time,"
answered Mr. Beresford.

'* I can't think what keeps him in London'*
the other went on. " Smith's erratic manner
of doing business I never can understand."

*' But the business gets done," broke in
Mr. Beresford quickly.

** Yes, yes. And if you are satisfied, I
ought to be. Still, I can't help thinking our
friend has been growing more erratic and independent
than ever lately, and what there is

to detain him in London at this time of year
I can't imagine. When there's work calling
him to Paris, too !"

'' All, I hope yom* firm has a hand in the
furnishing of M. de Breteuil's new house at
St. Cloud'' broke in a stout and pompous
brother-in-law, with a round head, close-cropped
black hair, and a much-waxed moustache
and imperial. *A perfect palace I
believe it is to be''

Gerald grew hot, remembering suddenly
Mr. Shaw's words about the confidential
clerk's underhand dealings with this rich
client of Mr. Beresford.

Yes, yes, we had a large order from him
some time ago."

''Ah, if all noblemen had as much money
as he, and spent it as freely, we men of commerce
should not be such good Republicans,
should we '?" continued the pompous brother-in-law.
"I saw him in the Champs Elysees
yesterday, and at the Opera one day last
week ; and each time J. said to myself, as I
looked at him, ' There is something in old
blood after all ; he might be a prince, that

man !' With his tall figure, as slim and as
straight as that of my nephew Victor there,
and  why, yes, a face not unlike Victor's
either, only a little older, a little thinner :
more interesting, I suppose the ladies would
say'

Gerald shivered. This description recalled
the face that had glared into his in the darkness
on the night of the murder, and he was
glad that the talk was turned into another
channel by the interruption of another tactless
old gentleman.

'well, I don't think Victor need complain,
when within ten days he has come into a
fortune and gained a charming girl for a
wife."

*'I can't imagine how it was that Mademoiselle
Ernestine hit upon Victor to leave
her money to, when she had never seen him,
and could scarcely even have heard his name,
living down in the south as she did."

Mr. Beresford's luck in having settled upon
his daughter quite a modest clot just two days
before his future son-in-law became the unexpected
possessor of a large fortune had been

the subject of much envious comment. A
chie to the mystery appeared suddenly from a
most unexpected quarter.

'* Oh, but you forget that Mr. Beresford
has been spending his winter down there,"
began Miss M'Leod innocently, when a slight,
quick movement of the paralytic's head made
her stop short, with the blood rushing to her
cheeks.

But it was too late. A roar of ironical
laughter showed that in the innocence of her
heart the poor little housekeeper had betrayed
her scheming master ; and though the universal
respect for Mr. Beresford, which this
discovery of his successful cunning only increased,
caused the merriment to be quickly
suppressed, the whole story came out after
dinner, when the ladies surrounded Miss
M'Leod, and forced her unwillingly to acknowledge
that Mademoiselle Ernestine had been
at Nice while Mr. Beresford was there, that
they had often met, and that the name of
Victor, with mention of his courage, industry,
piety, and other good qualities, might have
cropped up now and then in conversation.

Miss M'Leod, who was too honest to deny
what she knew to be facts, was, however,
certain that no interested thought had suggested
to her master this high praise of his
partner's son.

She was trying to think of an excuse for
escaping from the throng of laughing ladies,
and was yet in doubt what reception she
might meet from Mr. Beresford, who had retired
again to the inner salon, when the door
was flung roughly open by Delphine, who
ushered in, without announcement, a lady
whose appearance, unknown as she was, cast
all the chattering group into silence.

Tall, beautiful, majestic, she advanced into
the room like a queen, her heavily jetted
black silk train making subdued music as she
moved.

Madame de Lancry !" cried Gerald
eagerly. And he sprang towards her with a
light in his face which caused poor little
Peggy's eyes to fill with angry jealous
tears.

I am afraid I have come at the wrong
time, Gerald," said the visitor, in a low voice.

glancing at the crowd of gaping faces. *' But
I must see Mr. Beresford, and at once."

* Unfortunately that is impossible," said a
wiry voice from a long way below her. And
the tiny housekeeper, anxious to recover her
lost prestige, barred the way to the inner
salon, to which the lady was advancing.
*' Mr. Beresford has already been over-excited
to-day, and I cannot allow him to be disturbed."


Some watch-dog's instinct had told her
that the visit of the beautiful stranger would
be an unwelcome one.

'' I must insist, I am afraid," said Madame
de Lancry coolly ; ' I have come on a matter
of life and death."

She made a step further towards the door
of the inner salon, when it was opened from
the other side, and Mr. Beresford himself
gently tried to push Miss MXeod out of the
way.

** Come in here, madame, if you please,"
said he, in a voice that was scarcely
steady.

And Miss M'Leod felt, as she glanced up

at the cruel handsome mouth and steely glowing
eyes of the strange lad}?-, who seemed to
sweep her out of the way as if she had been a
fly, that her instinct of mistrust was a right
one.

As soon as they were alone together in the
little salouy Mi*. Beresford laid his feeble hand
on the back of a chair near the fire, and begged
Madame de Lancry to take it.

' Thank you," said she, seating herself on
an ottoman that was nearer to his own armchair,
' I would rather sit where we can see
each other."

*' Certainly, madame."

The green shade he habitually wore over
his eyes made the privilege one-sided ; but
Madame de Lancry watched the little she
could see of her companion's face as she went
on talking.

' You will forgive my intrusion, I think,
Mr. Beresford, when I tell you that I have
just learned that a man in whom you are as

much interested as I am lies under suspicion
of a crime which you know and I know he
has not committed."

Mr. Beresford's perfect self-possession for a
moment left him.

*' Indeed !" he said huskily, without looking
at his visitor ; 'your statement is very
sensational, very startling, madame."

'rit is more than that. A warrant has
been issued in England for the arrest of the
man Blair, on suspicion of his being the murderer
of Mr. Shaw. Now, I know and you
know that the real criminal was quite another
person "  whether this were a random shot
or not, its effect on the paralytic was sudden
and strong  " and I want you to help me,
not to bring the guilty man to justice, but to
prevent his crime from hurting the innocent."

Really, I  I am not in a fit state of
health to bear all this exciting talk "

You are strong enough to hear one thing:
Mr. Shaw was murdered at the very time
when he was going to prove Blair's innocence,
and to befriend Gerald Staunton
actively. On learning the death of the man

on whom he relied, Blab* has not dared to
show himself, and therefore he now lies under
suspicion both of the theft and of the murder.
Gerald remains in his old position of underpaid
clerk. The wrongs of these two men
have to be righted."

Very likely, madame, but it's not my
work."

The paralytic's manner grew cooler and
drier as the lady became more excited.

* Then it will be mine."

Mr. Beresford slowly shifted his position a
little, and leaned back as if amused.

* Most kind and womanly. If talking
would do them any good, I am sure you will
do your best for them."

'' Believe me, it would be so much wiser
of you to do the work for me."

** I never guessed a riddle in my life,
madame, so if you will explain your melodramatic
threats  for I suppose you are
threatening me  we shall get over the ground
more quickly."

'* Very well, then. Your philanthropy in
keeping Gerald Staunton here is a sham ; you

have no personal regard, no pity for him
whatever. You took him up merely to keep
him off the track of his father's murderer'

Her words might have been the ravings of
a madwoman for all the effect they had on
the paralytic. There was a pause before he
answered her.

*' I'm sure his father's murderer ought to
be very much obliged to me."

Madame de Lancry was not more easily
disconcerted than he.

'believe me, you will increase and not
lessen his obligation to you by doing what
I ask."

You have asked nothing, madame."

*' I ask you, first, to recompense Gerald
Staunton for his six long years of exile and
misfortune, for his clouded name, for his services
to you  by giving him your daughter in
marriage. I ask you to find some means  I
don't care what means  to rescue the man
Blair from his position as a suspected thief
and murderer."

'your demands are certainly modest.
And what is to be my reward ? The satisfaction

of having done two good deeds ? I
am not philanthropic."

*but you are prudent. Let M. de Bred
know what my demands are, and ask
him whether it would not be better to accede
to them*'

** It is ten years since you were the mistress
of M. de Breteuil  you see my knowledge
of your history is as extensive as and more
accurate than yours of mine  may not your
influence over him have waned since then ?"

*' My power over him has not. Ten years
ago I knew one desperate secret of his ; now
I know two. Shall I give you the details of
both ? I have no doubt you know enough
about them to be able to judge of my
accuracy."

Madame de Lancry sat upright and spoke
calmly ; she might have passed for a statue
of Justice but for the steady fire that burned
in her gray eyes, which betrayed that this
was not with her a mere question of abstract
right and wrong. The paralytic moved nervously
in his chair.

*for God's sake be quiet," said he, in a

low voice, watching her uneasily from under
the shade over his eyes. " What difference
can it make to you who marries my
daughter ?"

** Well say it is a whim of mine that
Gerald should marry her. Knowing my
history, as you say you do, you will not
be surprised that I have whims''

There was just a shade of increased confidence
in her tone, and the paralytic noticed
this.

And what if I refuse, madame T'

'' Then I shall use my knowledge of M. de
Breteuil's secrets as I please''

*' And how will that affect me ?"

'* By affecting those in whom you have an
interest."

An interest ! What interest ?"

Shall I tell you ?"

She could only see the lower part of his
face, the curved nostrils, the drooping white
moustache, and reverend white beard ; but as
she looked, trying to define the lips half
hidden by the silver hair, she drew back her
head with a slight start, and a cry, which she

tried to stifle, broke from her. Raising his
left hand, Mr. Beresford slowly pushed up
the green shade that was over his eyes ; the
light from the lamp made him blink, but he
returned her gaze steadily, and watched the
change which instantly took place in her look
and manner. Her confidence gave way to
doubt, doubt to utter confusion ; after a few
moments' silence her eyes fell and her head
dropped.

*' Won't you explain yourself, madame ?"
said Mr. Beresford urbanely. " You were
going to be kind enough to tell me the nature
of my interest in Mr. Shaw's murderer."

'* I made a mistake," said Madame de
Lancry, rising hurriedly. *' I confess I felt
convinced I recognised in you an old boulevard
acquaintance of M. de Breteuil's, and
your knowledge of my past history seemed to
confirm that."

' An acquaintance is not necessarily an
accomplice, madame."

* No, no  but  your manner seemed to me
suspicious when I spoke of M. de Breteuil's 
secrets."

VOL. II. 29

** Every man has secrets, I among the
rest. You judge very hastily."

*' And apologise very humbly. I hope you
will forget and forgive my intrusion, monsieur."


She held her hand down to him in winning,
gracious apology. The austere old man gave
way a little.

*' A lady's impulsive kindness of heart will
get the better of her judgment sometimes,"
said he indulgently. ' You take a very warm
interest in Gerald, madame."

He did not take her proffered hand, but
pointed to a chair. Madame de Lancry,
however, bowed, and walked towards the
door.

* I have had an adventurous youth, and I
am passing into a dull middle age : two good
reasons for my being quixotically and romantically
kind-hearted  by fits and starts. After
this abortive outburst, I have no doubt the
volcano will slumber peacefully for a twelvemonth,
at least."

She laughed, in the most light-hearted and
charming manner, and wished him good-evening,

as if her errand had been about bonbons.
And Mr. Beresford chuckled civilly in return,
as if any errand would have been welcome
that brought him such a fascinating
guest. But the artificial grin left both faces
as soon as they were out of each other's sight ;
and both grew grave and hard, as if the interview
had brought each in contact with a new
enemy.

In the outer salon Madame de Lancry had
some difficulty in escaping from old M. Fournier,
whose elaborate compliments and civilities
she received with the manner of a tired
empress. Victor did not come near her until
called by his father, and then he stood by
rather shyly, without looking at the beautiful
lady, all his vivacity suddenly gone. He was
quite eclipsed for the time by the quiet Gerald,
who shook Madame de Lancry's hand warmly
in both his, and begged her to sit down on
the chair he brought, and hung over her
affectionately when she had done so. The
ladies rather held aloof, as if feeling that
there must be something improper in this

292

beauty, this stateliness, and the devotion they
excited in the less particular sex.

Madame Fournier, good soul, who came of
an ugly race, and looked upon handsome
people as eccentricities of Nature that should
not be judged too harshly, tried to heal the
breach by a well-meaning but tactless inquiry
when Madame de Lancry and M. le General
would leave Calais.

Not for some time, I think," answered
Madeline suavely. '' I have just made up my
mind to ask my husband to take a house a
little way out of the town for a few months ;
the place is so cheerful and the society so
charming."

Victor glanced uneasily round to see how
his relations took this speech ; but it excited
nothing more than surprise in most of them.

* I don't think you will find it so gay if
you settle down here," said Madame Fournier
doubtfully.

*rand poultry is so dear here!" hazarded
a cousin ; adding hurriedly, with an awkward
laugh, "but of course that would not affect
you, madame."

'No," said Madame de Lancry slowly, as
she rose to go, * it will not affect me much,
for while I am here I shall live upon  excitement."


The ladies present came one and all to the
conclusion that Madame de Lancry was mad ;
but the gentlemen viewed her eccentricities
more leniently.

*' I could never have believed that I should
have found a romantic, robber-haunted district
so near to civilization," she went on.
I really feel a delicious dread of being
attacked on my way back to Calais."

And she glanced at Gerald. Before he
could offer to escort her back, however, Victor
sprang forward with open jealousy burning in
his face.

'let me go with you, madame ; no one
knows the road so well as I do."

Madame de Lancry laughed as she laid her
hand on Gerald's arm.

What would your poor little fiancee say ?"
said she, in a low voice, which, however,
Peggy's keen little ears overheard.

Oh, you may take him, madame ; I don't

mind," she broke in with alacrity, glancing
alternately at Gerald and the beautiful lady
with open disapproval of their friendly attitude.


*' You are not jealous, then ?" said Madame
de Lancry, playfully raising the unwilling
little face and bending to look straight into
the elfish eyes.

' Not of  Victor' answered Peggy boldly,
but in so low a whisper that it needed the
sidelong look of anger she cast at Gerald to
make her meaning clear.

Madame de Lancry kept the indignant face
between her hands for a few moments longer,
her interest evidently deepening as she looked.
Then she turned very suddenly, to try to get
the light of the lamp upon the girl's face.
But Peggy wriggled herself out of the lady's
grasp, and, plunging into the group of which
Madame Fournier formed a member, put her
head into the motherly lap and effaced herself.


Victor, who had recovered his self-possession,
wisely refrained from forming one of
the party that gathered in the hall to see

Madame de Lancry off, but devoted himself
to dispelling the momentary consternation
caused by his behaviour to her, with animation
still more marked, still less spontaneous
than before. No one guessed how he loathed
every member of the dull society he was
entertaining, and how madly he envied  for
the moment  the gentle English lad Madame
de Lancry so unaccountably and openly preferred
to him.

The little square omnibus which had
brought the unexpected visitor to '* Les
Bouleaux " rumbled slowly for some distance
on the road back to Calais before either of
its occupants broached any subject of particular
interest to them. Gerald felt shy of
doing so, and Madame de Lancry was not
talkative.

*' So that little wild girl is the queen of
women!" she said at last, smiling rather
contemptuously, as he thought.

' Yes, madame," he answered, feeling hot
and not very happy, but resolved to stick to
his colours.

*swell, I have examined her and thought

over the situation, and I think it would be
much better for you to give her up'

* I know that, madame," said he simply;
*but no fellow worth the name of a man
ever does give up a girl for that reason.
Besides, you can't give up what you haven't
got, and what you never had a chance of
getting. Please don't talk about her It
won't make any difference, and I can't
explain myself, and it only makes me look
like a fool."

Well, what shall we talk about, then ?"

'' Won't you tell me why you came to see
Mr. Beresford ? I can't help thinking it was
about  about that awful night's work ; and I
know you went to see old Monnier about it.
You have told me just enough to make me
half mad to know more."

What do you want to know ?"

"The name of the man who killed my
father. Only tell me, and I will hunt him
out and "

That is unnecessary, for I know where
he is."

Gerald started violently.

" Tell me, for God's sake, tell me !" said
he hoarsely; *'I would give anything for
something to do now  like that."

And in the dusk she saw on the young
man's face the hungry look brought by unsatisfied
passion, and she knew that the tool
was growing sharper for the work.

"I cannot tell you. For I have so little
proof of what I have told you, that if the
murderer were arrested now, he would be
able to prove that on the night Mr. Shaw
died he was where he is now  two hundred
miles away''

Gerald's face changed.

"It is cruel of you to play with me like
this, madame," said he, with bitterness and
energy most unusual in him. " You led me
to believe "

What I believed myself  that I had a
clue between my very fingers. I have found
out to-day that I was mistaken  that the
work before us is not even begun."

*well, how am I to begin it? Give me
something to do, some reason for getting away
from this place, or I think I shall go mad."

*tali!" broke out Madame de Lancry
rather bitterly. *' It is the girl, always the
girl, who is in your head. If you could have
her and be happy with her, you would soon
forget all about clearing your father's names*'

'* You are hard upon me, madame. I have
nursed the hope of avenging him so long and
so vainly that it hangs about me like an old
dream, and I can hardly take in the belief
that it will ever be realized."

'And the other hope  isn't that a vain
one too ?"

*' Yes, I  I suppose so."

** Oh, then you have still some idea of
entering the lists with Victor, and coming off
conqueror after all !"

Gerald stared at her in wounded astonishment.
She had always shown the best side
of her nature to him before, so that her sneers
were disconcerting.

*'No, I haven't, madame," he said at last.
'but if one were to let all one's hopes go
out at once, one wouldn't get on very welland
 I suppose you don't know what it is toto
be quite cracked about anyone ?" And

he looked at her with shy admiration. *But
can't yon understand how the fellows felt who
were cracked about you ?"

She turned towards him with a sudden
gust of kindness, as if he had struck the right
note at last.

*eyes, Gerald, perhaps I can," she said.
'* And it is true that you can do nothing until
I have found out something for you to do."

" It's awfully good of you to take so much
interest in this business."

*' Good ! No, that is not the right word.
Disinterested help is weak and capricious.
Luckily for you, in helping you I am helping
myself."

Gerald watched her face silently for a few
moments, and then said quietly: "I think I
understand. You have some grudge of your
own against the man who killed my father ?"

'eyes."

"And you have been brooding over it all
these years, just as I have done ?"

''No. I had almost forgotten it when
chance  or  or perhaps something higher  
brought me face to face with you. Then I

remembered, having nothing better to do, that
I had a promise to keep and an oath to fulfil :
the promise concerned you, Gerald, and the
oath concerned your father's murderer."

The young man said nothing. This
woman's nature, that could lie calm so long,
and then be stirred by strong waves of
passionate impulse, was quite a new and
inexplicable thing to him ; and her cynical
suggestion that she had set herself to this
bloodhound's task for want of anything better
to do excited in him alarm and mistrust. He
glanced at her shyly and waited for her to
explain herself.

But as the little omnibus began to rattle
through the stone - paved Calais streets,
Madame de Lancry shook off her melodramatic
mood, and teased the poor lad by
talking of nothing but trifles ; and when they
reached the door of the Hotel de la Gare he
helped her to alight in a rather crestfallen
manner.

' Good-night, madame'' said he hesitatingly,
as she was sweeping past him into the
hotel.

*'0h, come in," she said lightly, glancing
behind her at him.

*but Mr. Beresford will not like me to
stay away longer ; I know it will displease
him very seriously."

*'Mr. Beresford's freaks need no longer
disturb you. You are not going back to
Les Bouleaux.' "

She laid her hand firmly on the arm of the
astonished lad, and drew him within the doorway,
speaking at the same time in a very
quiet and careless voice.

''Do you know where Mr. Smith is,
Gerald ?"

Mr. Smith ! He is in London."

*' You know his address ?"

*' Oh yes ; I write him long letters at
Mr. Beresford's dictation very often."

'' That's all right. Now come upstairs,
and we'll see what we can do to equip you
for a night journey. You must cross to
England to-night."

Gerald Staunton heard Madame de Lancry's
mandate very calmly, and let her lead him
upstah's into her sitting-room unresisting.
Eut no sooner had she closed the door, and
looked well at his face by the light of the
candles, which had been burning some time
in anticipation of her return, than she saw
that she had overrated his docility.

** I am sorry I can't do what you wish,
madame, for you have been very kind to me.
But I could not think of going to England
without Mr. Beresford's permission. goodnight''


He was at the door before he finished
speaking, and would have been out of the
room in another moment, if Madame de
Lancry had not darted across the room with

the lightness of a girl, and caught loth his
hands in a grip so unexpectedly savage and
muscular that Gerald instinctively tried to
wrest himself free as angrily as if she had
been a man.

'wait!" she said, looking straight into
his indignant face with lurid, dilated eyes.
* What has Mr. Beresford ever done for you
that you haven't overpaid him for ? What
clerk in his office has worked so hard as you,
or received so little pay for it ? What has he
ever done to make your life worth living ?
Can you doubt now that it would have been
better to beg yow way back to England,
when he picked you up in Paris six years
ago, than to spend the best years of your life
in the dull drudgery from which he never
means to set you free ? You want to find
the man who killed your father  Mr. Beresford
wants to keep you off the track. Break
away from this man now  it may be your
last chance. Follow my instructions, find
out your old friends, and there is still time
for you to clear your father's name and to
live a happy life in your own country. I

give you my solemn word you are not even
safe in this one V

Gerald's face grew white and wet as he
looked at her, and heard the burning words
she was hissing into his ear like an enchantress.
At the end, he tried again to free himself from
her grasp, with the manner of a man who is
shrinking from some spell.

'' I cannot go, madame. He is my employer
at least, if he is not my benefactor."

She drew back a little way from him suddenly,
without releasing him, and, as she
spoke again, her voice was no longer whisperingly
persuasive, but rang out in sharp clear
tones like a bell.

' Do you know," she said, ' that it is
your presence at  Les Bouleaux ' that is
hastening Miss Beresford's marriage with
young Fournier ?"

The young man's limbs began to twitch
and to tremble, and he was again like wax in
her hands. She pressed her advantage instantly.


The old man knows of your fancy for his
daughter. He does not care a straw for any

pain you may feel, and he will avoid all
danger from a possible return of your affection
by marrying her before your eyes, within a
few days, to this man, who does not love her.
Are you willing to witness this *?"

*' My going away would not change Mr.
Beresford's plans. You do not know him,"
said Gerald hoarsely.

' My poor boy, you have no one else to
trust. You may as well trust me," said she,
with a change in tone and manner to caressing
softness, as she again drew nearer to him.
*'If you will do as I wish, and cross to
England to-night, I will not only get you Mr.
Beresford's permission to remain away, but I
will swear to you that his daughter shall
marry no one against her own will."

Gerald raised his head, breathing heavily,
and looked with dull, dazed eyes wistfully
into the passionate, hard, yet swiftly changing
face before him.

' I must go  away  from her ?" he said
brokenly.  You will only be good to her if
I do that ? Madame, why don't you explain ?
I am not a child. It is not fair to push me

VOL. 11. 30

blindly on in the dark. What power is it
you have over us all ?"

*' Simply the power of a wilful woman, my
dear boy ; but there is nothing in the world
like it," said Madame de Lancry, dropping
some of her tragic earnestness the moment
that it had made sufficient impression.

** And you want me to trust only to that ?''

Ah, you are not yet bribed heavily
enough V she broke out impatiently. 'rit is
not enough for you that the girl should be
safe : she must be safe with you. Well, then,
follow my instructions for the next week, and
you shall be free to marry the girl  if you
will."

The magnetic influence of this woman's
glowing beauty, and passionate, capricious
earnestness, was so strong that a tide of joy
rushed up in the young man's heart, and
swept away all doubt as to her power of fulfilling
her promises.

I  I will go, madame," he said, almost
staggering, as at last he felt himself free from
her strong grasp.

And he turned towards the door, his brain

dizzy, Lis senses quickened, bis heart on fire.
A faint sigh of relief, which involuntarily
escaped from the lady's lips, roused his dulled
conscience, however, and he turned, not
irresolute, but with resolution changed.

'* I will go to * Les Bouleaux,' and ask Mr.
Beresford to let me return to England ; if, as
you say, he wants to get rid of me, no doubt
he will let me go at once, and I will come
and receive your orders."

You are under my orders now," said she
imperiously, turning him like a child from the
door, and half forcing him into a chair beside
the stove. "You will not leave this hotel
except to go straight to the boat, and by the
time you arrive in London you will find Mr.
Beresford's permission to remain there awaiting
you."

Gerald did not try to resist any longer.
He sat as if stupefied, answering with an
effort the remarks his hostess made on indifferent
subjects as she opened her writing-case
and prepared to write letters. As he furtively
watched her movements, Gerald was surprised
to see that her manner of setting herself

302

to this task was fussily feminine  not at all
simple and business-like, as he would have
expected from her strength of will and firmness
of purpose. In the midst of her busy
play with blotting-paper and penwiper, the
door opened, and a gentleman, whom Gerald
guessed to be M. de Lancry, came in. He
glanced from Gerald, who rose, to his wife,
who nodded to him, and saying briefly, '' Mr.
Staunton, a young friend of mine'' went on
with her occupation.

So the old and young man sat meekly down,
and, after the exchange of a few commonplaces,
the two seemed to take to each other,
and, as the lady left them entirely to themselves,
they chatted very amicably for sometime,
until the General, who persisted in
speaking laborious English in spite of Gerald's
efforts to keep him on more familiar ground,
asked him what Madame de Lancry was doing
for him.

** Some trouble with your sweetheart, and
my wife make it up ?" he suggested good-humour
ely.

*' No," said Gerald, growing suddenly shy

and husky, *' I haven't a sweetheart, monsieur."


Oh, tell me not that ; no, no'' said the
General, laughing ; *' if not a sweetheart forever,
still, a sweetheart for to-day."

*' No, monsieur," said the young fellow,
who was scarlet by this time ; "a sweetheart
for ever is not so easy to get, and a sweetheart
for to-day would not satisfy me."

'height, very right," said the General,
nodding his head slowly from time to time
to eke out his laboured sentences. " Give
up love for pleasure when you are young,
and when you are old you get neglect in
the stead of either."

Involuntarily Gerald's eyes stole, after this
gloomy speech, from the grave old soldier
to his still young and handsome wife. She
rose abruptly from the table, and rang the
bell, saying that Gerald must have supper
before his journey.

'' You travel to-night ?" asked the General,
surprised.

Yes, monsieur ; I am going to London."

Ail, there, among your beautiful countrywomen,

you will find the sweetheart forever."


No, monsieur'' confessed Gerald simply ;
"I am leaving her behind."

And the old and the young man exchanged
looks of quiet sympathy as their tete-d-tefe
broke up.

From that moment  perhaps guessing the
danger that the young man' s firmness might
fail him if he were allowed time for reflection
about this separation from the girl he loved 
Madame de Lancry never left him one moment
to himself or to her husband ; and, when the
time drew near for the departure of the boat,
she sent for her mantle, and herself accompanied
him to the quay, leaning on his arm,
and enchaining his unwilling and wandering
attention by kind questions about himself, his
tastes, his pleasures, and his prospects. She
was so sweet, so sympathetic, that he blamed
himself for not feeling more grateful, and, ashe
shook her hand before stepping on board,
he said humbly:

'* You must think me a great bear, Madame
de Lancry, for not saying more to you about

what you have done, and have promised todo.
But "

*' Thanks given for promises are always
unsubstantial things' she interrupted, laughing.
*' In a month from now you shall fall
at my feet and bless me."

Then she shook both his hands again
heartily, and watched him as he made his
way amongst the crowd of passengers hurrying
on board the boat. She had intentionally
waited for the arrival of the Paris train before
bringing him down to the quay, and even
now she followed him carefully with her
eyes as he walked about the boat in search
of a seat. When the gangway was drawn
up she breathed more freely ; but it was not
until the boat had steamed away, and Gerald
raised his hat to her, with a safe distance
of some fifty yards between him and the shore,
that her face relaxed and lost its expression
of eager anxiety. Then she walked briskly to
the end of the pier, and looked out over the
dark shifting sea at the boat as it became
a speck in the distance. Then she laughed,

neither musically nor sweetly, and turned
back towards the hotel.

*' Poor boy' she said to herself, with real
pity in her voice, ** it is not quite fair,
perhaps, to trick him ; and he is not the sort
of man I should have chosen for his task,
if I had been able to choose. But one must
use such tools as come to one's hands and he
will do as well as another if he will only
follow my instructions."

These instructions, so far, had been very
simple. Gerald had only to go to Mr. Smith's
London lodgings, to put a letter from Madame
de Lancry into his hands, and then to remain
in London until he heard from her again.

On the following morning Madame de
Lancry drove to ' Les Bouleaux," and
arrived there just as Mr. Beresford came
downstairs. In spite of Miss M'Leod's
entreaties, he insisted on receiving the visitor
himself.

'' I won't trouble you long, Mr. Beresford,"
said his tormentor sweetly, as she was
ushered into his presence, and advanced

towards him with a hand most sympathetically
outstretched.

He gravely raised her fingers to his lips
with his left hand, and thanked her for her
kindness in visiting a tiresome old invalid so
often.

"Not at all' said she imperturbable.
We had such a pleasant interview yesterday
that it is a pleasure to come again'

'' You have come to tell me that you have
brought my boy Gerald safely back, I hope,
madame. I should have been nervous about
him last night, if he had not been in such
good hands."

"It is very kind of you to say so. He
is now in good hands, better even than mine ;
for I have sent him back to his friends in
England. Ah, I knew you vvculd be grateful,"
she broke out suddenly, in a different
tone, as Mr. Beresford gave a slight but
perceptible start. " There is no doubt he
would have proved a serious obstacle to your
daughter's marriage  girls are quick to find
out who loves them best  and you have

borne the generous burden of the boy's
maintenance too long."

** You have taken a most '*

*' Unwarrantable liberty ? Yes, I have.
But you will forgive me, won't you ? And
now that the boy is once away, you will
write him permission to stay away, will you
not ? He is at the Charing Cross Hotel.
See how perfectly frank I am with you : I
have given you his address, so that you can
recall him if you like; but still  I would
advise you to let him remain in England."

The autocrat was cowed. He took up
a pencil in his trembling left hand, and played
with it and with a sheet of paper nervously.

** And what if I recall him ?" he said at
last, very quietly.

Then, as I have taken a fancy into my
head to befriend the lad, I must do it in
some other manner."

He raised his head, and his eyes, from
under the green shade, peered at her once
penetratingly. Then he scrawled a few lines
slowly with the pencil on the sheet of paper,

which he handed to her. She read it
aloud :

Dear Gerald,

If you want a holiday, you are
welcome to it. Let me hear from you.
** Yours affectionately,

' Martin Beresford."

every kind of you," murmured Madame
de Lancry softly. " May I send this to the
boy ?"

If you please, madame," said the paralytic
indifferently.

And with profuse apologies for disturbing
him so early, Madame de Lancry left him.
In the hall she met the autocrat's little dragon
guardian, to whom she bowed most graciously.


How is Miss Beresford, after the excitement
of yesterday ? These betrothal dinners
are trying ordeals."

** I cannot inform you, madame," said the
housekeeper stiffly. " Miss Beresford ran
out of the house this morning before breakfast,
in a fit of petulance, and has not returned."

And, with a sweeping curtsey, Miss M'Leod
retreated into the salon without another
word.

On re-entering the hired carriage in which
she had come, Madame de Lancry gave the
direction  '' Fabrique Fournier, Saint Pierre'
As she drove along the straight sandy road
she saw, a little before the point where the
canal comes in sight, the small, slight figure
of a shabbily-dressed girl hurrying along at
the side of the road. Madame de Lancry
glanced at her carelessly, but did not recognise
her as anyone she had seen before.
On arriving at the factory, she sent in a
message, asking whether M. Victor Fournier
could spare her a few minutes. She had
scarcely time to lean back in the carriage
when the young fellow hurried out to her,
flushed and radiant at the unexpected sight of
her.

"Are you very busy?" said she, smiling
with her most persuasive manner.

I am never too busy to be at your
commands, madame''

Then come with me a little way. I'm

so dull ; I haven't seen anybody but my
husband since  yesterday."

The impressionable young Frenchman
opened the carriage-door promptly, and took
the seat she offered him beside her.

' Where shall I tell him to drive to,
madame ?"

*' Oh, anywhere, anywhere  out of the town
for a little while."

More pleased than ever, Victor told the
coachman to take the Guineas road, and then
turned to the lady, still scarcely believing in
his own good fortune. Among the local
pseudo-beauties he was considered dangerous
by his rivals, irresistible by himself; but this
fascinating new-comer belonged to another
world, and with her one could not be so
sure of one's powers.

How charming she was, he thought, as she
leant back, without taking the pains to be extremely
vivacious, as one half of the ladies he
knew capable of this sort of adventure would
have been, or inconceivably languid, like the
remaining half ! Hove sweet, how new, her
attitude of business-like seriousness was ! It

was, in fact, so business-like, so serious, that
a moment's doubt clouded the young Frenchman's
infatuated happiness. This doubt was
deliciously dispelled by her first words.

*' I am afraid I made a very inopportune
appearance at ' Les Bouleaux ' yesterday.
Your fiancee did not seem pleased to seeme."


* Madame, she did not know how much
reason she had to be displeased."

Madame de Lancry looked at him steadily,
but without showing either gratification or
annoyance at his words.

You don't care for Miss Beresford,
Victor ?" she said at last.

He shrugged his shoulders.

'* Madame, I care for her as one cares for
the case and the straw in which one receives
a present of choice wine : the wine could not
come without them, but when it has come,
they are in the way."

** Ah, * les beaux yeux de sa cassette ' are
the attraction. Why, Victor, you are avaricious
at three  four-and-twenty ! What do
you want with this unfledged little creature's

dot, yoii who have just had a fortune left

you r

*' Ah, but, madame " began the young-man
eagerly ; and then he hesitated.

'well!"

*' With that fortune there is a condition  I
must marry an English girl."

Madame de Lancry started, but for a few
moments she said nothing. Then she looked
at him penetratingly.

'' That is very strange, is it not ? You
have an aunt who has not seen you since you
were a child, who never cared much about
you, who scarcely remembers your existence.
Mr. Beresford lives in the same town with her
for a few weeks ; he is avaricious, he has a
marriageable daughter who has not previously
occupied much of his thoughts. He returns
from Nice, sends for his daughter, engages
her to you, and shortly afterwards you learn
that a fortune has been left you by your aunt,
on condition of your marrying an English
girl. Has the matter struck you in this
light ?"

Yes and no, madame. Mr. Beresford is

an oracle with my father, who sees in all this
a smart stroke of business, which he admires.
They are partners, and what is good for
one is good for both. I almost think that,
on condition of this arrangement, my father
has consented to my receiving with Miss Beresford
no dot at all."

*does not that seem strange Your
father is a rich man ; so must Mr. Beresford
be. Take my advice, do not let yourself be
hurried into this marriage until your aunt's
will is proved." She saw immediately that
these words where taken by the young fellow
for a flattering sign of jealousy. She added :
*' What if Mr. Beresford, careful as he seems,
is imperilling his own fortune by private
speculation ? That is what the erratic
conduct of his confidential clerk Smith
suggests to me."

Victor, who was in debt, took the alarm at
once.

*what can I do, madame ? I dare not
hint such a thing to my father. I cannot
prove it for myself."

*' Take my advice. Be on the watch for

Smith's comings and goings. Mr. Beresford
is in feeble health : you are deeply in love, of
course, with his daughter. Make one or the
other of these excuses for constant attendance
at ' Les Bouleaux,' and watch the effect of
Mr. Smith's visits on Mr. Beresford. Speculation
is gambling : watch for the gambler's
elation, the gambler's depression, the gambler's
irritability in Mr. Beresford's manner ; and if
you find the signs hard to read, come to me."

Madame, how can I thank you ?"

' There is no need for thanks at all," said
she, with simple magnanimity, in which
Victor could detect no venom. 'I shall be
too happy if I can help you against the fraud
of a speculator or the avarice of a miser."

She told Victor to direct the driver to return
; and the young man's cupidity had been
so successfully aroused that she found no
difficulty in keeping his admiration under the
strictest control until he left the carriage at
the outskirts of the town. She looked after
him with a shrewd expression on her face.

'' A very good ferret for the second hole,"
she said to herself; *' and now for the third'*

VOL. II. 31

She was thoughtful and preoccupied as she
drove back to the hotel, and went upstairs to
her sitting-room. At the door her attention
was suddenly aroused by the sound of a high,
excited girl's voice inside. She turned the
handle and went in, guessing who the intruder
was. Her husband was sitting, silent and
solemn, by the stove, and in front of him,
pouring forth torrents of indignant eloquence,
in the attitude of a miniature Cassandra, was
Peggy Beresford.

The entrance of Madame de Lancry did not
in the least disconcert Peggy Beresford, who
turned towards her fiercely, as if rather glad
to find an opponent more worthy of her steel
than the peaceful old General.

Where is Gerald ? What have you done
with him ?" she began at once, as Madame
de Lancry walked into the room, very composedly
unfastened the clasp of her fur cloak,
and seated herself in a chair facing her
husband's, as if the excited little intruder had
been some over-indulged domestic pet whose
capricious humours were of no consequence.
At these fierce questions she looked up lazily.

'' My good child, don't you know that
these uncivilized attacks are the luxury of the
very poor, and are quite out of place between

312

people like you and me ? Now run away
home, like the good little savage you are at
heart, and I will make no complaint to your
father about your impertinent intrusion'

'* It won't make any difference to me if
you do, for I shall never see my father
again if I can help it. And I won't leave
this place till I know what has become of
Gerald."

Then we shall enjoy the pleasure of your
society for some time, my child. Gerald
Staunton is now occupied with business far
too important for him to be distracted by any
wild and childish whims of yours."

*' Then you won't tell me where he is ?"
The little creature turned, white and shaking
with passionate excitement, from the handsome
lady whose face was now as hard as a
mask, to her quiet old husband, who sat
watching the conflict in much anxiety.
"Make her tell me  do make her tell me !
You said you would help me if you could.
"Why don't you make her speak ?"

Don't worry my husband, dear child. I
have no doubt he would do anything in his

power to assist you, but this, unfortunately,
is out of his power'

She rose from her chair and opened the
door with a majesty not to be resisted.

*' Now go'' she said, in a voice harder and
colder than ever. ** You have intruded upon
us long enough."

Shivering from head to foot with rage, disappointment,
and physical fatigue, Peggy still
stood before her, and hurled forth her last
defiance in tones alternately harsh and
broken.

You are a hard, selfish, cruel woman,
and you have no more friendship for Gerald
than you have love for your husband," she
burst out tremulously. '' But I will save
him from you. I don't know where he is,
and I haven't a penny in the world. But I
will find him out, and go to him, and tell
him how wicked you are, and how much I
love him, if I have to beg my way all over
France, and England too."

And with a smothered sob she gave up all
attempt at maintaining her dignity, and
rushed past her enemy out of the room.

Madame de Lancry shut the door after her
with an exclamation of relief, and turned to
ask her husband if she should read to him, as
if glad to be rid of a distasteful subject.
The General thanked her with his usual
elaborate courtesy, but he was not quite at
ease ; and she had scarcely read half a dozen
lines of an article in the Vaudois on the political
crisis, when he turned abruptly in his
chair and interrupted her.

'* Madeline, you are too good to me, as you
always are. But I will not trouble you to
read to me longer, for I cannot listen to-day.
That poor child's entreaties fill my ears.
Why were you so harsh to her, Madeline ?
You who are so gentle, so kind !"

Madame de Lancry dashed down the paper
and went to the window without answering.
The crust of her habitual calmness was
broken up, and passion was flashing in her
great eyes. The General rose slowly from
his chair, followed her to the window, and
called her softly, " Madeline, Madeline."

She shook her shoulder petulantly, but did
not turn.

*' Madeline, you will answer me, I am
sure. You are never discourteous to me."

There was such simple dignity in his
appeal that she reluctantly moved so that he
could see her side-face, and bent her head
slightly to show that she was listening.

'* Tell me what made you so unlike yourself
to that poor little girl. Why were you
so unkind to her ? You spoke to her as if
you hated her."

She turned suddenly and met him face to
face. Leaning against the window-frame,
with the sinking April sun shining on her
chestnut hair, and on her glittering, feverish
eyes, she showed her husband, for the first
time in their married life, what manner of
woman it was that he had married. Like the
Circe of fable, like the Messalina of history,
like the fairest, most daring incarnation of
all that is beautiful and evil, she stood
before him with the fierce lightning of
reckless passion playing over her beautiful
face.

I do hate her!" She hissed the words
out defiantly, and met his astonished gaze

with eyes still on fire. '* And I am not
unlike myself; I am myself again."

' I don't understand you, Madeline.
What has changed you like this ?"

' I am not changed. You don't change a
letter by tearing off the envelope. The
envelope has been torn off to-day for the first
time ; if you don't like the contents ol the
letter, why, you can throw it away."

She tossed back her hair with one hand
from her burning forehead, and made a step
away from the window towards the door.
Her husband touched the fingers of her right
hand reverently to detain her.

' Don't leave me like that, Madeline ; I
have not treated you so badly as to deserve
that. You do not care for me, I know ; but
you have borne with me, and I have
worshipped you even for that. No change in
sou can make me love you less ; give me
your confidence, for the sake of an old
husband's love."

Madeline stopped and stared at him, hearing
in her husband's tones a strange echo of
the passion which had thrilled her own voice

in the long past days when she had been a
shive to the cold and selfish Louis de Bretenil.
She tried to laugh, but broke off suddenly.

** I  I am behaving very foolishly,
monsieur," she said, not quite steadily,
making a strong effort to recover her usual
indifferent manner. '' If you will allow me
to go to my room for a quarter of an hour, I
will undertake not to trouble you with anymore
eruptions."

' No, no, Madeline," said the . General,
seizing her hand, '' you shall stay with me ;
you shall answer my questions now. If I let
you go, you will come back in ten minutes
cold, calm, listless, obedient, and I shall see
no more of my wife than I see every day.
Great heavens, Madeline, I am not so old nor
so cold as you think, and I like you better asa
devil than as a statue !"

He bent his still handsome head till his
iron-gray moustache touched his wife's chestnut
hair, and she submitted to be led back by
him to the chair she had so abruptly left.

Now tell me what you please," said he,
seating himself beside her.

Madeline had been so long used to treating
her husband as a cipher that it was for
the first few moments rather disconcerting for
her to be called upon to treat him as a man.
As he waited quite patiently for her confidence,
however, she at last rather hesitatingly
gave it.

' I have met lately, quite by chance, a
person  some people  who caused me great
unhappiness when I was a girl, long before I
over met you."

"But this child, this little creature who
was here to-day ! Surely she " Madeline's
face grew sullen again.

'' No, I never saw her until yesterday."

And your reason for hating her ?"

'that I cannot tell you. At least," she
added quickly, '' the girl is in my way. She
is in love with a lad in whom I take an
interest, and who would be better without
her. That is reason enough, isn't it ?"

And Madeline got up, with a very evident
intention of answering no more questions;
Her husband let her go, but he was not at all
satisfied with her last explanation. If his

vvife liacl been fond of him, it would never
have occurred to him to be jealous of a lad
like Gerald. But, stirred as he had been by
her excitement, awakened suddenly to consciousness
of the strong current which ran
under the crust of her everyday manner, he
was ready to accept the unlikely, and he
walked up and down the room, when his wife
had left him, with almost a young man's
impetuosity.

'*A boy like that! It is impossible that
she can care for him !" he said to himself,
forgetting his invalid's gait as he stamped
angrily upon the floor. 'why, he doesn't
even care for her; it's this little girl he is
thinking about. And yet, what is this business
of hers that he is so busy with ? And
what does she mean by having these secrets
from me ? I won't allow it, I won't allow
it ! She surrounds me with an army of
doctors and servants, and doses me, and
walks on tiptoe near me, in order that I
may treat her as a nurse and not as a wife.
But I'll send them all away; I'll have no
more pillows and no more walking-sticks ;

I'll enter the lists myself with these youn
popinjay whom she doesn't even think it
necessary to introduce me to. I've been
deceived in her; I'll let her see she has
been deceived in me."

And the General walked up to the window-again
st which she had leaned, and pictured
her again to himself as she had stood there in
her proud beauty; and forgotten fire came
into his own eyes as he did so. He was on
the point of turning away, to give effect
straightway to some of his new resolutions,
when, as he glanced out upon the quay, the
small figure of the girl whose appearance had
raised the day's storm caught his eye. She
was standing with her back towards him,
looking at a ship which was being loaded
for departure. A gendarme watched her idly
from a few yards off, and a couple of tiny
gamins played hide-and-seek round her, without
her appearing conscious of their presence.
The General was interested ; she looked so
forlorn, so friendless ; he wondered what was
the thought in her mind that kept her there
alone, motionless, minute after minute. For

more than half an hour she remained in the
same place, never once moving sufficiently
for him to see her face as he sat watching
her. At last a group began to gather, the
last preparations were being made, the ship
was going to start. Peggy slunk out of the
way of the little crowd, and wandered along
under the hotel windows, glancing behind her
now and then wistfully at the busy sailors she
had been watching ; and so, slowly, forlornly,
walking with wavering, uncertain steps, as if
she had no particular object in her lonely
ramble she passed out of the General's sight
along the broad stones of the quay. He was
not satisfied ; he got up and fetched his field-glass
 a toy which his wife took care to have
always at hand, as it kept him quiet  and
after allowing sufficient time for a person to
cross the movable bridge at the end of the
quay, and to get round to the opposite side of
the basin, he began to look out carefully.
Before he had watched many minutes he saw
again the tiny figure, a mere speck in the
distance by this time, moving along more
slowly than ever, stopping from time to time

to look down into the green water many feet
below her. A shudder passed over the
General, and a fear lest the thoughts in the
poor child's mind should be darker than he
had imagined : when she passed again out of
sight behind the hill, he watched, in anxiety
which absorbed his own troubles, for her
return within range of his glass. The sky
was darkening towards evening when, to his
great relief, he saw the solitary speck returning
: the warmth of the April day was gone
by this time ; he shut the window and
shivered. His wife had not come back to
renew her usual perfunctory attentions, and
he was glad of it. Ringing the bell, he
ordered his servant to bring him his overcoat
and cap, and when the astonished man
obeyed, he put them on and looked at himself
in the glass with some simple satisfaction.
The long military cloak which he still affected
suited him, and his wife had that afternoon
awakened his innocent vanity.

*' You are not going out, monsieur, and so
late !" remonstrated the servant, in amazement.
" What will madame say ?"

His master drew himself up.

'' The ladies are too nervous, Charles ; one
should not always consult them."

And he took the strong stick he habitually
used, and, refusing any other support, made
his way slowly along the corridor and down
the stairs. He was not strong yet, but he
was in better health than he had been allowed
to imagine, and he found the evening breeze
that blew in his face as he stepped upon the
quay rather refreshing than chilling. He
turned to the left, keeping close to the
water-side, and kept a sharp look-out for
the little figure of which he was in search.
The masts of the ships that lined the harbour
were standing out black against the
deepening crimson of the evening sky when
he came at last face to face with Peggy
Beresford.

She did not know him, but came straight
towards him with a blank, sightless look on
her face that made her more like an elf than
ever. He stopped short in front of her, but,
without even glancing up to see who it was
that was barring her passage, she stepped

nimbly on one side and passed him. He
turned round and called to her.

'* Mademoiselle !" he began, without any
effect.

The sound of his limping footsteps as he
hobbled after her, however, arrested her attention,
and as he came up with her she
turned.

'* Monsieur de Lancry ?'' said she shyly,
uncertainly, and as if prepared for flight.

"Yes, mademoiselle. Do not be alarmed.
I wish to help you if you will allow
me. You wish to know where is M.
Gerald."

Peggy started.

You said you couldn't tell me !" said she
sharply.

*' I cannot tell you with exactness, mademoiselle
; but I know that he is in London."

"Ah, I thought so. And Madame de
Lancry sent him there !"

"You are anxious to find him, mademoiselle
?" said the General stiffly.

"I icill find him' answered Peggy, with
fire, "if I have to go crying his name all

through London, Hke the Saracen lady did
Gilbert Ticket's!"

'' And when do you propose to start, mademoiselle
?"

All her valour went out suddenly, and she
stood before him, limp and wretched, with
the tears forcing their way to her eyes.

** ril ask the captain of the night-boat to
take me over'' said she tremulously. *' And
if he won't, I'll ask the captain of the boat
that goes tomorrow!"

But he will perhaps know you. I believe
you are the daughter of a gentleman who
resides here."

"I don't care," muttered Peggy, whom
objections made dogged ; '' I'll get to London
somehow, if I have to sw-whim."

*' I  er  I hope  I trust that mademoiselle
will not think I wish to be impertinent
I have indeed no such intention  but if I
might presume to lend mademoiselle the
amount necessary "

He need not have been afraid. Peggy had
scarcely got an inkling of his meaning when
she made a frantic effort to embrace him on

VOL, II. 32

the open quay ; and clinging to his arm, with
the tears running down her cheeks, she
blessed him and thanked him vaguely but
affectionately, while he took out his pocketbook
and put five sovereigns into her hand.

English money will be the most useful,"
he explained, as he put it carefully into her
shaking little fingers.

*'I shan't want it all," said Peggy, "I
dare say."

'* Too much is better than too little," said
the General. '* When will .you start ?"

*' To-night, of course."

*rand what will you do with yourself in
the mean time?"

'ego to Gerald's pastry cook's and have
some tarts."

*' You ought to have something more solid."

*' No, no, I'm all right, monsieur ; I could
live upon air now."

And the tiny creature raised her weird
eyes to his, and showed him a face transfigured
into loveliness by the change from
anxiety and despair to energy and hope.

* Good - bye, good - bye, monsieur. You

have been a fairy godmother to me, and I
will love you all my life for it."

She seized one of his hands and printed
two or three quick, passionate kisses on it ;
then, like a spirit of the evening mist, she
fled away so quickly that, before he could
even return her farewell, she was out of
his sight.

The General walked very slowly the short
distance which lay between him and the
hotel. His wife, who had heard of his
caprice, met him in consternation. But he
laughed off her fears with a new indifference
to his ailments, and she began to understand
that the relations between herself and him
were changed since the afternoon. He gave
no explanation of his expedition, no reason
for the fancy he had to sit up until the midnight
boat had left the harbour for England.

Then he went off to bed, still reticent, but
satisfied, for he knew that the poor little lady
whom he had helped that evening was safe
on her way to the young lover in whom his
own wife took such an unaccountable and
undesirable interest.

322

"She will find him out," he thought to
himself composedly, '' and he will marry her
and have no time to attend to other women's
affairs."

And in happy ignorance of the havoc he
was doing his best to work in his wife's well-laid
plans, Monsieur le General went to
sleep.

Madeline sat up later, thinking over the
events of the day, and congratulating herself
upon the work she had done. She had had
too adventurous a life not to be superstitious ;
and when she had summed up the results of
her labours, she shook her head and sighed
doubtfully.

"It has all gone too smoothly," she said
to herself. " Gerald rescued from ' Les
Bouleaux ' and saved from that girl. One
ferret at ' Les Bouleaux ' ; the second in
London ; Paris the only hole that remains to
be watched. My husband is well enough to
go away; tomorrow I find out that I am
tired of Calais, and must return to the boulevards
; then it is only a waiting game. And

yet  and yet  I wish it had not all been
arranged so easily, so simply. There's always
a little ripple upon the open sea ; but in the
smooth water close in shore one looks out for
rocks."

END OF VOL. II.

BILLING AND SONS. PRINTERS, GUILDFORD.

cM.

wf

OF Dai\kKess

BY THE AUTHOR Of

*eth HOUSE ON THE Marsh



mam

L I B Really

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

or ILLINOIS

J3Gpr
y. 3

A

'/r/tJ //Ma//n fy.

3.

;0OK8TALl. 
laMomtlu.

'tcrMicn.)

1 11 a

tteriftumj

- 2 2 O

- 2 lO O
8 3 O
5 8 O

Return this book on or before the
Latest Date stamped below.

University of Illinois Library

Wr

'3

miss

m-5i3l[

'mim

in 2009 with funding frown

University Illinois Urbatia-JDhampaign

http://www.archive.org/details/princeofdarkness03ward

31 lloyd

BY

FLORENCE WARDEN,

Author OF

THE HOUSE ON THE MARSH,' ' A DOG WITH A BAD NAME,

'the Vagrant wipe,' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

LONDON :

WARD AND DOWNEY,

12, YORK STREET, COVENT GARDEN.

1885.
[All Bights Reserved. 1

A Price OF Darkness.

Chapter Ic

The night-boat from Calais bore the runaway
Peggy to England. She scarcely dared believe
in her own good luck in escaping without
pursuit, even when the gangway had been
withdrawn, and the boat was steaming slowly
past the old wooden pier. She peeped out
cautiously from under the shelter of one of
the lifeboats, with a farewell fear that some
emissary of her father's, say the birdlike Miss
M'Leod or the panting Henri, might dash
along the quay at the last minute, and, by
frantic cries and gesticulations, induce the
captain to put back. But no such catastrophe
happened : the fact was that Miss
VOL. III. 33

M'Leod had not taken fright at Peggy's long
absence until late in the day, and then had
not dared to report it to Mr. Beresford, who
had shut himself up in the most formidable of
humours since Madame de Lancry's visit.

Peggy's spirits rose to the wildest height
when she felt that she was safe, out of reach
of her father, whom she feared, and of Victor,
whom she hated. She had been scarcely
three weeks at Les Bouleaux," but the
horror and the mystery of the events which
had happened there during that short time
had made her stay a hideous nightmare, with
only one sympathetic figure  Gerald. Gerald,
whom she respected and liked ; not with a
sentimental feeling, oh dear no ! but with a
very strong impression that he had not been
well used, with a most firm determination to
put him on his guard against the wiles of
Madame de Lancry, No coyness troubled
Peggy : the love for Gerald, which she had
confessed in her excitement, seemed such a
natural feeling for anyone who had been so
kind to her, that she felt no scruples about
following him to England ; there she would

find him out, prevail upon him to have
nothing more to do with his French friends,
and then devote her attention to finding some
work by which she could earn her living.
"What this work might he she did not care ;
in the exuberance of her happiness at having
escaped from paternal control, she would
have swept a crossing.

This free, devil-may-care, bold buccaneering
spirit lasted until about mid-channel,
when it was quenched by sea-sickness, which
placed Peggy at the mercy of a kind-hearted
sailor, from whom she parted almost with
tears on landing at Dover. She still felt ill
and giddy, but Peggy had the luck of the
brave ; and the guard of the London train,
seeing her staggering along in a helpless
fashion by the side of the rails on the pier,
asked if her luggage was all right, and on her
answering that she hadn't any, found a corner
seat for her in the train, lifted her into the
carriage, and pulled up the windows. Her
ulster was not very thick, and the night was
cold; her travelling companions were two
noisy and tiresome French people, who tried

332

to forget the evils of the sea-passage by continuous
eating and drinking. Peggy had an
uncomfortable journey up to London, and
arrived, worn out, chilled, and miserable, at
the house where she meant to stay.

It was a house at the West End, in a
street well known for furnished apartments
neither particularly large nor particularly
good, but which had, somehow, got the reputation
of being ** superior," and were much
affected by fashionable actresses and by men
about town. This class  or these classes 
occupied the best rooms for the most part,
while the top-floor and the ground-floor of
many of the houses formed a kind of rookery
still ' superior," of course  where curates
and shop-girls, daily governesses, retired
officers, and City clerks, inhabited each a
humble little room, with the satisfaction of
being able to write from * a good address."
In the house at the door of which Peggy now
knocked she and her mother had passed many
a dreary month of cheap discomfort, and it
was with a very perfunctory smile that she
returned the greeting of the sleepy servant,

grimy even at that early hour, who opened
the door to her.

*eyes, Ellen, I've come back," she said
choking back the tears. '' Has Mrs. Walton
got a room for me ?"

** Yes, miss. The Major went off yesterday;
'e said 'e couldn't stand Mr. Yorke's
boots in the next room no longer, miss. So
there's 'is room you can 'ave, miss."

Peggy followed her upstairs to the third-floor,
and wondered, as she threw herself on
the hard bed, and looked stupidly round herat
the cupboard-like bareness and dreariness
of the little room, how '' the Major " could
have *' stood it " for so long. She felt too
tired to sleep, too ill to eat the stale egg and
bit of black toast which Ellen presently
brought her on a cracked plate dedicated to
the use of the third-floor. She drank a cup
of tea, however, and felt grateful for the girl's
attention.

The day passed miserably ; she could not
rest except for a few minutes at a time ; she
felt too stupid, too much excited, to lie still
and think, and whenever she attempted to getup,

the room swam round lier and her head
throbbed violently. It was not until the
afternoon was drawing to a close that with
tottering limbs she made her way downstairs,
and into the little back room which was Mrs.
Walton's own sitting-room, and of which certain
of the more favoured inmates of the rookery
had the entree,

Peggy peeped in ; no one was there. She
entered, went straight up to the cage of the
canary, gave him an affectionate ' tweet-sweet
" to let him know she hadn't forgotten
him, and then seated herself on the gaudy
hearth rug, dragging the huge tabby cat 
another old friend  on to her knees, and
squeezing him, more than was kind, for
friendship and sympathy. A night-journey,
followed by a day's headache, might play
havoc with a lion's courage ; and Peggy
began to feel, as the tears trickled one by one
down her face and exasperated the patient
cat, that she had left *' Les Bouleaux " on a
wild-goose chase, and that even a home overshadowed
by a mystery was better than no
home at all.

*' And I shall never, never be able to find
Gerald in this great London !" she wailed, as
she threw herself, cat and all, full length on
the flagrant hearth rug, with her head in a
leather-covered armchair, the spring of which
had got out of order and made uncomfortable
mountains and valleys in the seat. ' And
even if I knew where he was, I shouldn't
dare to go and see him. Perhaps he would
not care to see me !"

This was quite a new and horrible thought,
born of the humility of loneliness and misery.
It brought a blush to her wan face, and
suddenly stopped her tears as if with a burning
iron. She raised herself on her elbow
and stared fiercely into the fire, while the cat
seized the opportunity to escape.

The next moment the door opened, and
Peggy heard some one come into the room.
She did not look round, for she was ashamed
of her tear-stained face ; she kept quite still,
hoping that the intruder might go out again
without having noticed her. But she was
disappointed. The armchair from which she
had just raised her head creaked on its

castors ; a hand on the back was moving it,
as if to attract her attention. Still she would
not move, being seized by an impulse of rage
at the impertinence of this somebody, who,
seeing her distress, was anxious to get a
better view of her in her misery. The
enemy, however, was quite as strong of will
as she, and she suddenly felt the armchair
pushed forward so that it jerked her arm.

She turned her head, as if by a spring, and
began, crimson and furious, '* Will you have
the kindness "

But then she stopped short, and sprang
up on her feet with a cry. Leaning upon the
back of the armchair, smiling, red-faced, shy,
his features quivering with some strong
emotion, his eyes fixed upon her with a light
in them which caused the blood to rush to the
girl's face, was Gerald. Upon her first impulse,
Peggy threw herself upon one knee in
the armchair, with her hands over the back,
in an irrepressible burst of wild delight. She
had scarcely done so when Gerald imprisoned
her where she was, flinging his right arm
round her, and raising with his left the little

wild-flower face to his, kissing lier lips passionately,
trying to speak to her, failing altogether
in uttering a single coherent sentence,
but betraying his love, in this moment of
abandonment, as he had never betrayed it
before.

'gerald'' she half-shrieked, half-sobbed;
and she threw her arms round his neck, not
like a woman who has found her lover, but
like a lost child found by its nurse. But as
his kisses, his passionate whispers, after reassuring,
began to puzzle her, she drew back
her head, pushed his face away from hers,
and tried to wriggle out of his embrace.

Don't go away, darling. Aren't you
glad to see me ?"

*' Ye-es. But let me go ; I want to talk
to you."

As the grasp of his arm loosened, she
escaped like an elf, and, seating herself in the
armchair, imperiously signed to him to place
himself at her feet. Gerald got a footstool
and very meekly obeyed, hugging his knees
and looking up at her with intoxicated reverence.
For she at once assumed the attitude

of the superior very decidedly, though the
colour brought by his kisses had not faded
from her face, and though her voice was still
rather unsteady from excitement.

 I think you have been behaving in a very
extraordinary manner," she began severely.

Gerald blinked at her humbly, and then
looked into the fire and cleared his throat in
modest confusion.

'I  I was so glad to see you," he said,
in a low, husky voice.

*glad to see me!" she echoed sharply;
*' that's not what I mean at all. What did
you mean by running away from ' Les
Bouleaux,' without a word to anyone, just
because that wicked, selfish, painted Madame
de Lancry told you to ? And when my poor
father is ill, too !"

Gerald turned from the fire to stare at her
helplessly.

** You've come away, too," he suggested
humbly.

** That's different. He is my father, and
bound to provide for me, which he hasn't
done. And he is not your father ; yet he has

been good  that is, pretty good  to you.
So he has a claim on you, but none on me :
do you see ?"

Gerald nodded, not daring to dissent.
There was a pause. He glanced up at her,
and, surprising a look of the frankest fondness
on her face, his right hand sneaked up to hers
and squeezed the little fingers. She withdrew
them with a look of rebuke for the
familiarity, and they sat in silence for some
minutes, Gerald stroking the cat, who submitted
to his caresses more willingly than to
Peggy's.

Then at the same moment their heads
turned towards each other, and their eyes met
lovingly.

*' What made you come to this house ?"
asked Peggy softly.

 I don't know London, and you had told
me this was where you and your mother used
to me," he answered shyly.

Another pause. Then Gerald spoke again.
** What did you come to England for ?"

'' I ? Oh, I ? Why  to earn my own
living. I'm tired of idleness," said Peggy

restlessly and rather incoherently. '' What
did you come for ?" with resolution.

** Madame de Lancry sent me ; I thought
she had sent you."

Peggy's face clouded.

She is a hard, cruel woman, and I hate
her. What did she send you here for?"

To give a letter to Mr. Smith."

'' Mr. Smith ! I don't like him. And did
you give him the letter ?"

*not yet. I haven't seen him," said
Gerald, growing very grave. *rand I've
been hearing such strange things about him,
that I'm crazy to know what the letter
says."

'' What strange things ? Do tell me,
Gerald. I can keep a secret, because I don't
know anybody to confide it to. What have
you found out about Mr. Smith ?"

Well, you know what a queer, mixed lot
of people come to stay in this house. Last
night I was talking to a tall, thin lady who
had supper in here with the rest of us ; she
was very amusing, and said lots of things
that were funny just from the way she said

them ; and presently I found out that she
was an old actress, when somebody in the
room began to abuse the stage. She defended
her profession, and when she was challenged
to deny that there were a great many wicked
people in it, she said she only knew one
thoroughly bad, and he had left the stage.
Everybody laughed at her, and wanted to
know his name. She would not tell, but she
gave a description of him so like Mr. Smith
that I got her on one side after supper,
and asked her to tell me in confidence if that
was his name. She asked me a few questions,
and when she was satisfied that I was not
prompted by mere curiosity, she gave me the
address of a house where she had been staying,
where she said I should find out more
about him."

'' And did you go there ?"

*' Yes, I've just come back. The person I
had to ask for would not see me."

** What was the name of the person ?"

Gerald paused for a moment. Then he
said, in a low voice, '' Mr. Blair."

Peggy started ; and they looked at each

other silently. Then she whispered, " Did
you give your own name ?"

u

No.

'You must go again, and give it. You
must see him. You had better go now."

They rose at the same moment, both
terribly excited.

** How could you sit here quietly and talk
about other things, when you had heard
that ?" hissed out the girl, in a low voice.
*' Don't you know what this may throw light
upon r

'eyes. But I  I forgot everything 
when I saw you''

She would not let him kiss her again, but
shook hands, holding him off, as if she did
not read the wish in his eyes.

Reluctantly, but trying to hide his reluctance
from the energetic little creature who
stood there inciting him with flashing eyes to
immediate action, Gerald left her and started
on his errand.

It was a lodging-house in the north of
London to which the old actress had directed
him, and it did not take him long to find his

way back to it : a great, bare, dingy house,
let chiefly in single rooms, into one of which,
after waiting for some time, Gerald was
shown. A wretched place at the best : it
looked like a prison now that it was tenanted
by the miserable creature who sat by the
table and looked suspiciously at Gerald as he
came in.

For a few moments the young fellow hesitated,
unable to recognise the florid, swaggering
travelling companion of Mr. Shaw in the
man before him.

'Mr. Blair?" he said at last diffidently.
** You don't remember me, I am afraid."

The other tried to pull himself together,
and the limp and forced travesty of his old
buoyant manner, as he passed a shaking hand
through his long white hair, reassured Gerald
as to his identity.

**Ah, yes, delighted to meet you again."
And he shook the young man's hand heartily,
showing plainly in his face, however, that the
sight of his visitor aroused in his mind no
memories whatever.

*' I am staying in London now," said

Gerald simply, when he had been offered
a chair and had taken it rather awkwardly,
not knowing how to come round to the object
of his visit.

'* Indeed ! I am very glad to hear it.
Hope I may have the pleasure of seeing you
again when I am in more comfortable quarters.
This is merely a make-shift, you understand
good enough for a bachelor for a couple of
days, but "

He stopped short, listening  as if listening
were a constant habit of his life. Then
he got up, and glanced out of window : and
Gerald saw that his face wore a hunted look.
The young man sprang up, hot and red-faced,
and broke out impetuously, '* Look here, Mr.
Blair, I see you don't know me, so I'll tell
you what I've come about. Miss Harrison,
who was staying here, and who was kind
to you when you were ill, has told me about
your troubles. Is it true that on the night
you crossed to England, after the robbery
in the train, Mr. Smith crossed too ?"

The old man turned livid, and started
forward with a curse.

*' You are a detective !"

'' No. I'm a clerk of Mr. Beresford's, and
I've been sent over here, as far as I can
make out, to keep an eye on the doings of
Mr. Smith''

Is he suspected, then T' asked Blair
feverishly. ' ' I know there is a warrant out
against me ; is there one against him ?"

**No. Nobody suspects him of being concerned
in the robbery, except me, and you,
and I believe oue other person. Is it true
that he crossed with you ?"

'' Yes, curse him ! He chummed up with
me on the way, and got me to drink with him
at Dover ; and then I hardly remember what
happened next, but just the rattle of cabs
and trains ; and when I first came quite to
myself again, it was seven o'clock the next
morning, and I was in the Scotch express, on
the other side of the Border. I found some
money in my pocket, and a note in a handwriting
I did not know, advising me to keep
out of the way for a while. I got out at
Edinburgh, and telegraphed to Mr. Shaw at
Les Bouleaux ' in the afternoon, when I had

VOL. III. 34

got my wits back a little. I got no answer,
as you know, for next day I learnt that
lie had been murdered." His voice sank to
a horror-struck whisper. " I rushed back to
London, to jSnd that a warrant had been
issued for my apprehension, and that I was
suspected, not only of the robbery, but of
complicity with the persons who murdered my
best friend. I did not dare to come forward,
I did not dare to leave London ; and I have
lived like a rat in a hole ever since."

*but surely you could have proved your
innocence ? Anything was better than seeming
to hide yourself."

Blair shook his head.

*' What could I prove ? Shaw was dead.
That scoundrel Smith is a man of position
and trust. Men like me, who live by their
wits, have no friends, at Court or anywhere
else. At best, they would have said I was
his accomplice, and as he would certainly
have been out of reach, I should have had to
suffer."

Have you the note advising you to keep

out of the way ?" asked Gerald, in a low
voice.

Blair got up, turned over a handful of
papers in the drawer of a rickety writing-table,
and produced it.

*' I think it is Mr. Smith's handwriting,"
said Gerald, after examining it. *' Will you
trust me to take care of this ?"

Blair nodded mechanically, and was silent
vhile the young fellow put the scrap of paper
carefully into his pocket-book.

'' What are you going to do with it ?"
Blair asked stupidly.

I am going to use it as evidence to clear
up this business, if I can."

Gerald's quiet, kind, business-like manner
impressed Blair, and after another pause the
old man came close up to him, looked straight
into his face, and whispered: *why was
poor Shaw killed ? Can you tell me why he
was killed ?"

He had something about him  I don't
know what it was, but something  which
would have given the police an unfailing clue
to the thieves. I heard him say so."

342

Blair started back with a loud cry.

' A clue ! A clue to the thieves, you say!
What was it ?"

* I don't know. It was something he
carried about with him."

The old man's face grew gray, his lips
shook, and his voice came out weak, hoarse,
and unsteady.

Then they might have let him live ! they
might have let him live ! Shaw was a
cautious man, and never felt safe among
Frenchmen. The clue you speak of he sent
to England that night  by me !"

'' Good God ! Why haven't you used
it?"

'' I never knew how important it was till
now."

Gerald Staunton and Blair stared at each
other in silence for some moments after the
startling announcement made by the latter.
The young man spoke first.

*' You have the clue to the robbery in your
possession, you say ?"

*' Yes. Shaw gave it to me when we came
out of the buffet at the Calais station. Mr.
Beresford's housekeeper was with us ; she can
prove that he put a little screw of paper into
my hand and said, ' Look here, old man, I've
something important to trust you with.'
Then she gave us a prim little bow and
walked away, and poor Shaw showed me
what was inside the paper ; and he rolled it
up in my tobacco-pouch, and fastened it with

two pins into one of my waistcoat-pockets,
telling me that I should have to take it to
Scotland Yard. Knowing he was going to
Paris about this business, I asked why he
didn't take it with him, and he said he should
be watched, and perhaps suspected of carrying
this clue ; he intended to describe it to
the head of the police in Paris, and if necessary
get the London police to send it over."

'' And you never took it to Scotland
Yard r

a did not dare''

'' But why ? why ? You say Miss M'Leod
could prove it was given to you by Mr.
Shaw V

' Yes," said Blair, letting his head fall
wearily on his hands as he leaned over the
table, "but this clue is no clue at all. It is
merely another piece of stolen property, and
it would not have helped me."

But at least you should have tried "

Perhaps so. At your age one does try,
and one is bold successfully. When you
have dodged Fortune for sixty years you lose
the knack of taking a difficulty by the horns''

What is this clue ? Will you let me
see it ?'' asked Gerald.

It was very hard for him to be patient
with the broken-down old man's shifty, nerveless
inaction. He put his hand gently and
persuasively on Blair's arm, seeing a look of
mistrust and irresolution come again over the
worn, haggard face.

'' Come, it can do no harm to let me see
it. You know very well I'll help you if I
can."

The old man shook his head ; but he got
up, and dragged out from under the bed a
shabby black leather bag, out of which he
took an old dark-grey waistcoat, the same
that he had worn on the unlucky journey.
Pinned into one of the pockets, just as he had
described, was the rolled-up tobacco-pouch,
and inside that was a crumpled envelope,
torn off a letter and screwed up to hold some
small object. Although Blair had not even
looked at this hidden possession since Mr.
Shaw secreted it for him, he now showed
great anxiety about it, and his fingers
trembled as he felt the paper to make sure

that it was safe ; while the ghastly remembrance
of a similar search he had made
brought added furrows into his worn face.
He was more fortunate this time : smoothing
out the paper very carefully, he showed to
Gerald's eager eyes a dark-red stone with a
crest and motto engraved upon it, evidently
the centre of a clumsy old-fashioned signet-ring.


The young fellow took it up to make out
the crest, while Blair's eyes watched him
with unconquerable suspicion. The engraving
represented two herons, the one standing
with outstretched wings over the prostrate
body of the other; the motto was : " Vainc-
queer et roy'' At the top was an earl's
coronet.

** Surely this can be traced," said Gerald
eagerly. " It's easy enough to find out
whose crest this is."

'' Oh yes, I know that," said Blair, without

any hopefulness. " The crest is Lord

Kingsclifife's. It must have been stolen from

him."

** Well, then, the police may be able to

help us. We must go and find out if there
has been a robbery lately at his place, and, if
so, whether the thieves have been discovered.
If they can tell us nothing, we must apply to
Lord Kingscliffe himself."

*' That won't do any good. He's the most
selfish old scoundrel that ever lived, and he
wouldn't give himself the trouble of saying
two unnecessary words to save a man from
the gallows."

Well, you said just now that the young
can be bold successfully. Will you trust this
stone to me, and rely on my doing my best
for you ? I'll work like a slave to get this
cleared up ; I will indeed."

Blair glanced with dull eyes from the
bright young face glowing with generous enthusiasm,
with stubborn determination, to the
dark-red stone on which his fate, so he began
to think, depended. He hesitated.

I aren't do anything with it myself," he
murmured, more to himself than to Gerald.
'rit might get me into fresh trouble. The
police would think I'd picked it up in some
pawnshop, and told this story to put them off

the scent. And, after all, it'll do no good,
I'm sure of it. I'd sooner chuck it into the
gutter, and be rid of the thing."

'* Trust it to me. Whatever it may do, it
shan't get you into fresh trouble, I swear."

He was gaining his end ; little by little the
old man's resistance gave way, and within
half an hour of his coming Gerald had the
stone safely in his own pocket-book, and left
the house with the steadfast conviction that
he was on the right track at last. The very
suspicion which had caused Mr. Shaw to send
the stone to England rather than carry it
himself had proved to have a fatally strong
foundation, and Gerald felt sure that the
hopes he had built on this little clue must be
equally well grounded.

He asked his way to the nearest police-station,
and at once inquired whether it was
known that any robbery had been committed
lately from the person of Lord KingscHfFe, or
any of his establishments. Nothing of the
kind had been heard of, and on Gerald's producing
the stone and stating whose was the
crest, he was advised by the superintendent

to whom he was talking to apply to Lord
Kingscliffe himself, smce he had made no
secret of the fact that the identification of
the stone was a matter of importance.

So Gerald, after another duty-call at the
Charing Cross Hotel, only to find that Mr.
Smith had not arrived yet, went back to his
lodging, and resisted the wish to see Peggy
again until he had gone straight to his own
room, and written a careful and humble letter
to the formidably wicked Lord Kingscliffe,
begging the favour of a few minutes' interview
to put him in possession of some
property which the writer believed to be
his.

Then with a clear conscience Gerald ran
downstairs to Mrs. Walton's sitting-room,
hoping that he had deserved some praise for
his energy from the imperious Peggy. But
disappointment was in store for him : the
small dictatress was not alone. Sitting on
the opposite side of the table were two inmates
of the house to whom already Gerald
had taken a great dislike. The one was a
massive, black-eyed young lady, of almost

aggressively healthy appearance and buoyant
manner, who was employed at a large millinery
and drapery establishment in Totten-ham
Court Road, and had there obtained a
wide fame for her beauty and accomplishments.
The other was a young man with a
very low forehead and a mean, coarse face,
whose hands were not particularly clean, and
who made his conversational effects by talking
in giggling whispers, to the delight of the
person favoured by his confidences and the
envy of the rest. The young man was looking
furious, the lady delighted, as Gerald
came into the room. Peggy, sitting upright
in the armchair by the fire, was staring across
at them, tired, sad, and puzzled.

She had you there !" the young lady was
saying exuberantly.

"I'm sure I didn't mean to 'have' anyone,"
said Peggy, in a most forlorn and
humble voice, before any of them caught
sight of Gerald, advancing behind the screen
near the door. " Mrs. Walton can tell you
who I am and all about me. And it is very
kind of you to offer to take me to the

Academy ; but I don't know much about
pictures, and I don't dress well enough for
anyone to take me out without being ashamed
of my appearance."

That's one for you !" said the young man
to the lady by his side, who was dressed with
seedy smartness, but not unbecomingly.

Gerald wondered how it was that the ill-bred
pair had had the penetration to discover
their superior in the tiny tired creature with
her direct simple speech, who sat drearily
opposite to them in her plain shabby frock,
and blinked at them as if trying to keep back
the tears. As he came round the screen,
however, her composure gave way, and she
sprang from her chair with an electric rush at
him, checking herself suddenly at a burst of
laughter from the other two.

I'm so glad you've come back," she said
quietly, though she was shaking with anger
at the rudeness of the strangers.

The young man cleared his throat loudly,
and got up with ostentatious alacrity. '' I'm
afraid we shall be in the way, Miss Simpson,"
he said with elaborate sarcasm.

Miss Simpson laughed again, but was less
inclined to take the matter seriously. However,
she submitted to be half-dragged up
from her chair and led ceremoniously out of
the room.

*' Has that cad been annoying you T' asked
Gerald hastily.

N-no, not exactly ; at least, I don't think
he meant to be annoying ; only he asked me
to go out with him, to tease that horrid girl,
I think, and of course I said no, and then he
was offended. She was the worst ; she asked
me a lot of questions about who I was and
where I came from. Aren't they odious
people, Gerald T'

* Yes, I think they are, rather; and I'm
sorry they have taken a dislike to us, for that
man is spiteful and may worry you. Last
night he annoyed me in every mean little way
he could think of, because that girl talked tome
instead of to him."

** Don't let us talk about them. Did you
see the man ?"

"Yes, and I've learnt something very important.
But you are not to hear anything

about that now. You are tired out, and you
must go to bed, and in the morning *'

She interrupted him, clinging tightly to his
arm, and looking up at him with a feverish
face.

'' No, no, don't send me away ! I hate to
be alone now : if I were to go upstairs I
shouldn't sleep ; I should lie shaking with all
sorts of silly fears, fancying I heard the
crackling of the branches in the wind as I did
at * Les Bouleaux,' and cries of voices and
the howls of a wolf in the darkness. Oh !
you don't know how awful the nights have
been since that evening when they came to
say that Mr. Shaw had been murdered in the
road. I thought, if I came away, I should
forget it all ; but to-night I shall hear them
just the same, I know."

Gerald did his best to soothe her and to
laugh away her nervous terrors ; but the poor
child was really ill, and when he made her lie
down on the sofa, she could not rest, but
started at every sound, and began to talk so
incoherently that, when the landlady came in,
Gerald in alarm asked her to send for a

doctor. Before she went upstairs, however,
with Mrs. Walton on one side and Gerald on
the other, she was unlucky enough to offend
again her enemy, Mr. Hicks, by failing to
hear his '' Good-night, miss," as he passed
her at the foot of the stairs.

111 serve them out, with their 
airs," said the amiable gentleman
to himself; and, being an acknowledged
adept at the refined amusement of ** practical
joking," he gave the whole force of his intellect
from that moment to the discovery of
some trick which should surpass all his
previous feats in the discomfort it brought
upon his victims, and the consequent glory it
brought upon himself.

The doctor pronounced Peggy to be suffering
from the effects of mental shock and over-excitement,
and of course prescribed the
entire rest it was impossible for her to take.
And he advised her to stay in her room for a
few days, being afraid of fever. But Peggy
burst into tears, and protested she should die
if she had to remain by herself so long, and
they had to give way to her.

So next morning she trotted downstairs
after breakfast, wrapt up in an old white
shawl of Mrs. Walton's, and looking like a
ghost down on its luck. And she hovered
about the sitting-room restlessly until Gerald
returned from his first visit to Charing Cross
Hotel. Then she sat quietly holding his
hand, and listening to his account of his
walk ; and presently, having passed a wakeful
night, she went to sleep with her head on his
shoulder. He went a second and a third
time that day, as he had made it a rule to do,
to see if Mr. Smith had arrived : each time he
found on his return that Peggy had worked
herself into a fever of impatience to see him
again. She was quite unconscious of the
fact, quite innocent of the effect her contentment
in his society had upon Gerald. After
the horror of her weird stay at 'ales
Bouleaux," she instinctively, shattered in
health and spirits as she was, took life as a
convalescent does, drifting along in a haze,
without clear thought, understanding little
more than the immediate present ; and in this
state of body and mind, the sight, the touch,

VOL. III. 35

of the one person in the world who had
shown her constant sympathy, constant kindness,
was to her as sunshine to the feeble
plant, water to the parched earth.

So that Gerald alone felt all the awkwardness
of the position. "What would Mr. Beresford
say when he found out, as find out he
must, that his runaway clerk was living
under the same roof with his runaway
daughter ? He suggested this view of the
matter to Peggy on the third day after her
arrival ; hut she only laughed and thought it
very funny. Then he proposed, in a roundabout
way, that he should find a lodging in
some other house ; but at this she began to
cry, and sobbed out that she didn't wonder
that he was growing tired of such dull society
as hers. And when poor Gerald, getting
very red and stammering frightfully, said
that it was not proper for a young lady to
live by herself in a lodging-house, and that
she ought to try to find out her mother's
friends, if she wouldn't go back to her father,
Peggy told him that he was very silly, that
she wasn't staying by herself, since he was in

the same house, and asked hmi why he hadn't
had the sense to say he was her brother ?
Didn't he Hke her well enough to have her
for a sister ?

And Gerald had to calm her by protestations
of brotherly affection, which he made
rather awkwardly, the subject was hastily
dropped, and the talk turned again upon Mr.
Smith's continued non-appearance, and the
obstinate silence of Lord Kingscliffe.

But no spirit and no affection could stave
off for long the illness which had threatened
Peggy on her arrival in England. On the
sixth day after her coming she broke down,
and was forced to keep in her own room.
Then there was a great display of feeling
among the other lodgers in the house  not of
sympathy with the forlorn little stranger, but
of excitement lest ' it should be something
catching." And in the midst of their selfish
fears as usual the good Samaritan turned up,
in the person of Mrs. Walton, the landlady,
an over-dressed, untidy woman, whose worn,
rather good-looking face made you curious,
suspiciously curious, about her past life, and

who nursed the fretful lonely gM with the
tenderness of a specially selected mother.

Gerald was inconsolable. He had been so
much troubled as to the results of her runaway
freak, so much concerned to keep down
his feelings to brotherly warmth, that he had
not realized how indispensable to his comfort
and content the touch of the little fingers, the
confiding gaze of the big elfin eyes, had
become. He was for ever upon the stairs, in
the hope of meeting the landlady or the
servant, either going to or coming from her.
He had to set himself long distances to walk,
that he might keep away from the house fora
reasonable time. In his impatient misery
he wrote to Lord Kingsclifie a third letter,
and wrote it so hurriedly that involuntarily
he allowed it to grow absolutely rude. To
his great surprise he got an answer, in the
form of a curt note from the Earl's secretary,
commanding, rather than asking, him to beat
Lord Kingscliffe's house in Piccadilly atone
o'clock on the following day.

Gerald was so anxious to keep the appointment
to the minute that he had to walk up

and down the street for a quarter of an hour
before the hour struck : his punctuality was
rewarded, for no sooner had he rung the bell
than the door flew open, and he was conducted
at once into the Earl's presence. At
first he thought he was alone in the rather
heavily furnished room, to which tall screens,
and dark plush chairs, and much woodwork
gave a gloomy look. Then a voice addressed
him from out of a heap of clothes in a deep
armchair, and he discovered that a white-haired
gentleman, with a penetrating face, the
outlines of which were still handsome, was
gazing upon him very intently.

'* Your name is  what ? I don't remember,"
said a voice, which instantly
brought into Gerald's mind the thought how
very like one old man's voice is to another.

*' Gerald Staunton, sir," said the young
fellow, wondering whether that was the right
way to address an Earl.

*' And you say you have some property of
mine in your possession ?"

*' I think so. I hope you will be kind
enough to tell me if it is yours."

*' You ve brought it with you ? Well, let
us see it'

Gerald produced the red stone and gave it
to the old gentleman, who turned it over in
his hand, and then asked, 'rand what did
this come out of?"

'' A ring, I believe, sir."

'' Ah ! Well, yes, this came out of a ring
which was once mine, if that is any satisfaction
to you."

'' And is it too much to ask how it left
your possession, sir ?"

'' I'll tell you that, too. It was taken 
stolen, if you like  from me by a member of
my own family, thirteen years ago."

Gerald started. This time it occurred to
him how very much one old gentleman resembled
another, not only in voice, but in
manner.

I suppose," continued Lord Kingscliffe,
looking at the young man shrewdly, ''I
am not far wrong in supposing that the
person in whose possession this stone was
found is ' wanted,' as the police say, for some
action or other that wouldn't raise the family
prestige ?"

** Robbery," said Gerald simply, *' and
conjectured complicity in a murder."

* Good, very good. Well, my good boy,
I would hazard a fair sum that the person
who took the ring from me is the person you
want. But you won't catch him. You are
an agent of the police, I suppose V

*' No, sir. May I keep this stone T'

' Certainly. It will do nobody any harm.
Good-morning."

Gerald went out in a whirl of excited
thoughts. He seemed to have done no good,
and yet he had heard something suggestive
and interesting. And through it all he had a
strong sense of amusement at the eccentric
manner of the old Earl.

'what a queer, snappish, clever old fellow
he seems to be ! And how he reminds me of
Mr. Beresford !"

As soon as Gerald got back to Mrs. Walton's
house, after his visit to Lord Kingscliffe, he
wrote a long letter to Madame de Lancry,
telling her all about it, and asking her what
he should do next.

The two following days, during which he
could hear nothing and do nothing, were a
time of torture to the young fellow ; for
solitary brooding over the matter brought him
to the conclusion that there was something
more than an accidental resemblance between
the snappish old Earl and Mr. Beresford.
Lord Kingscliffe was much older than Mr.
Beresford, and, in spite of the paralysis of the
latter, weaker and more infirm ; his face was
thinner, more sunken, and his voice feebler
and less under control : but there was such a

strong undefinable likeness between the two
men in speech and manner, that, with a
sudden hot flush, Gerald felt the question
darting into his mind, ' Could Mr. Beresford
be the relation Lord Kingscliffe meant ?"
He felt horribly ashamed of himself the next
moment for allowing such a suggestion to take
shape ; but, in spite of himself, it would come
back again and again, each time strengthened
by the suspicions and prejudices of Mr. Shaw,
Peggy, and Madame de Lancry. But if soif
Mr. Beresford were really the ne'er-do-weel
connection of the Earl's who had taken the
ring thirteen years ago, why, what of that ?
He had repented of the wild ways of his
youth  by-the-bye, he couldn't have been so
very young thirteen years ago  well, at any
rate, he had settled down respectably long
since ; and if he did drop a stone out of
his ring in the railway carriage on the night of

the robbery, that did not prove Gerald

did not shape the thought further. But again
Mr. Shaw's conviction that the stone was a
valuable clue to the robber came into his mind
to torture him with new and alarming fancies.

Peggy was still ill, so he was spared the
pain of evading the questions she would have
been sure to ask. He had been so much
preoccupied by thoughts of her, and anxiety
about the business he had in hand, that the
small persecutions and insults of his fellow-boarder,
Mr. Hicks, had for the last few days
entirely failed of their effect ; and when,
on the third Sunday after his own and
Peggy's arrival in London, he was told that
his tormentor had gone away for his yearly
holiday, the intelligence afforded him much
less relief than it would have done a fortnight
before. Mr. Hicks, however, never forgot to
pay off a grudge, such as he considered he
owed Peggy for snubbing him, and Gerald for
supplanting him in the estimation of all the
women in the house by the very simple
means of practising ordinary courtesy towards
them.

On this particular Sunday, Gerald was
surprised at luncheon time, when the ladies
had returned from church, to find that there
was a flutter of curiosity, surprise, and amusement
among them, of which apparently he

was the object. As soon as they saw that he
noticed this, he was assailed by a fire of
nods and smiles, half nervous, half malicious,
of congratulations, of innuendoes, of ' You
might have told me !" and '' When is it
coming off?" which made him look from one
to the other in amazement. Only Miss
Simpson remained silent ; and this fact awoke
his suspicions that some trick had been played
upon him.

'' What does all this mean, Miss Simpson
can you tell me ?" he asked quietly.

Only that, at the suggestion of Mr. Hicks,
who told us we should hear something Vvorth
listening to, we all went to the parish church
this morning, and heard the banns between
you and Miss Beresford published for the third
time."

No one could have told, from the manner
in which Gerald received this announcement,
that he heard it for the first time. He
had been so well prepared, by the expression
of vulgar malice on her face, for some disagreeable
news, that he was able to look straight at
her and laugh quite naturally.

*' I thought it would surprise you," he said
simply.

And every face at the table underwent a
sudden change. Miss Simpson, who had
spread the report that he knew nothing about
the publication of the banns, and had told
them all to watch his face when he heard
of it, was aghast ; Mrs. Walton, who had
only just got wind of the affair, looked unutterably
relieved ; while the sympathies of
most of the rest turned at once in the right
direction, the laugh raised was at the expense
of Mr. Hicks and Miss Simpson ; and, with
the heartiness of reaction, real congratulations
were showered upon Gerald instead of the
mocking sham felicitations of a few minutes
before. He received them with perfect self-possession,
and did not even hurry away from
the luncheon-table ; but he was much relieved
when the party broke up and dispersed in
search of nap or novel, and he was free to
snatch up his hat and dash out of doors for a
little steady thought.

His anger against the perpetrator of the
impudent trick soon spent itself ; the fellow

was out of reach, and there was an end
to that side of the matter. But Peggy, what
would she say if the story were to come to
her ears ? He could only hope that she
would not be so deeply hurt and offended that
she would break off her old affectionate intercourse
with him, and either refuse to speak to
him again at all or be so stiff and prim
as to make him wish she had done so.
Gerald did not know much about girls, but
he understood that they were wilful creatures,
who never saw any matter by the man's
light of common sense, and he thought it
very likely that Peggy might refuse to believe
that he had no hand in the matter, and quite
improbable that she should treat him as a
fellow victim.

He had spent some time in Regent's Park,
and was making his way through the throng
of young men and maidens with the unmistakable
impress of Sunday on their unbecoming
clothes, when it occurred to him that
he had been very foolish not to take the good-natured
Mrs. Walton into his confidence, and
beg her to help him in keeping the affair a

secret from Peggy until she should get well.
The fever was over now, and there was
nothing the matter with her but extreme
weakness, which kept her in her room still.
Gerald hoped that by the time she came
downstairs he might summon enough courage
to tell her the story as a joke, and at the
same time he thought he was subtle enough
to tell, by the way she received it, how she
would be likely to listen to a suggestion that
she should become his wife if he should ever
be in a position to make it. She would never
marry Victor, that was certain ; then why not
marry him, in that dim future of all penniless
young men, in which money is to be had for
the mere trouble of drawing a cheque ? Why
not, indeed, when he loved her as nobody else
ever would, as the fairest woman only gets
one man to love her ? The first irregular
impulses of his passion had now been fanned
into the steady fire of utter devotion, fed by
her innocent caresses, by the sisterly kisses
he received, but scarcely dared to return. If
she had only been some other man's daughter,
and not Mr. Beresford's, he felt that he.

inexperienced in women's ways as he was,
would have a better chance than any other
man with this girl, who, petulant and wayward
as he knew her to be, would always bea
fairy princess to him.

He hurried back to Mrs. Walton's, hoping
that it might not yet be too late to warn her.
But as soon as the door was opened by the
servant he saw the landlady herself fluttering
down the stairs, with a bunch of long ribbons,
which she wore on the left shoulder of her
Sunday dress, floating behind her: she
stopped excitedly and beckoned to Gerald,
who came up the stairs three at a time,
delighted at having found his opportunity
so soon. But no sooner had he come nearer,
and had time to whisper to her, *mrs.
Walton, I want to speak to you particularly,"
than she turned and tripped upwards like a
will-o'-the-wisp, nodding to him encouragingly
as he followed her.

On the first floor she paused, panting, and
hissing out, 'rit's all right. Mr. and Mrs.
Nesbitt are out, so you can go in here," she
opened the door of the drawing-room, half-ushered,

half-pushed him in, and then, instead
of following, shut the door, and ran downstairs.
Gerald could have sunk into the
earth : leaning back on the sofa, supported
by pillows, was Peggy. He could only seethe
top of her head over the cushions, and, as
she did not move, he, after a moment's pause,
turned to the door to escape. But he was
not clever enough to do so unheard; as his
fingers touched the handle she called feebly,
*' Gerald !" and he had to turn back again
with a crimson face.

She was holding out her hand to him, so
he came forward as boldly as he could, and
stood in front of her, without at first daring
to meet her eyes.

*i'm very glad you are so much better.
We didn't expect to see you down so soon,"
said he, in a stifled, constrained voice.

* Aren't you glad to see me down, then,
Gerald ? I hoped you would be."

It was all right, then ; she had not heard
of the trick. Gerald's head went up with an
expression of great relief, and he knelt down
beside the sofa and looked at her for the first

time. Her face was very thin and very white ;
but her eyes were so bright, and the smile
about her mouth was such a happy one, that
Gerald thought he had never seen her so
pretty or so sweet before. As, kneeling, he
bent his head to look more closely at her, she
stretched out her arms and put them lovingly
round his neck. He was astonished, but very
much pleased, by this tenderness ; and, with
his heart beating so violently that he was
afraid its throbbing would frighten her and
make her draw her arms away, he kept very-still
under her caress, and for the first moment
dared not even lift his eyes to hers. When
he did look at her again, she dropped her
head gently upon his arm with a low sigh of
utter content.

"What makes you so happy to-day,
Peggy T' he asked softly.

She moved her head so that she could lookup
into his face, and said rather shyly, " I  I
don't know." Then, suddenly raising herself,
and burying her face on his shoulder
vith an impulse of irrepressible passionate

VOL. III. 36

affection, she whispered, "Mrs. Walton has
told me."

Told you what ?"

*you know  what she heard in church
this morning."

*sand you are not angry? I was afraid
you would be so angry," said Gerald, much
relieved, but still more puzzled.

"Angry? No; I was astonished  I was
almost frightened. It came upon me so
suddenly, you know  so very suddenly. For
I had never thought you  you loved me 
like that. I had fancied, when I began to
think about it at all, that  that you liked me,
because you were kind, and because I was
lonely, but not because  not because I was
myself; I didn't think I was nice enough.
And so  and so, of course, I was very much
surprised this morning, and very, very
happy."

*' Happy ! You like me well enough
to "

Gerald stopped short. He saw now how
the story had been repeated to her  saw that
she loved him so well that even the unheard-of

liberty of taking her consent for granted
seemed no great offence in her eyes ; and, in
the burst of joy which succeeded to his bewilderment,
he took her in his arms and
kissed her over and over again. But
presently came her inevitable demand for
an explanation.

*' Why didn't you tell me you wanted
to marry me, Gerald ? You might have
known "

She did not finish her sentence. But
the simple-minded absence of any trace of
coquetry from her voice and manner made
her meaning clear.

Gerald hesitated. ' "What did you think
when you first heard of it ?" he asked.

*' Well, at first I didn't know what to
think. Then it came into my head that you
might be going away somewhere  to emigrate
perhaps  and that you didn't like to  leave me
all alone by myself, and that you hadn't yet
found courage to tell me so  you know you're
rather shy with me sometimes ; and yet there
was no time to lose. So you  so you got
everything ready ; and, of course, when I was

362

ill you couldn't tell me, and you had to wait
until  until now. That's what I thought,
Gerald. Was I right ?"

"You are always right, my darling," said
he tenderly, hut rather vaguely. He was
utterly bewildered by the position  did not
dare to confess to her that it was a false one
and was battling with a great longing to
take advantage of it. So he evaded the
question, and yielded to the delight of being
with her, of holding her little hands, listening
to the almost childish prattle she poured into
his ears in the pleasure of talking to him
again.

And so the afternoon slipped away into
evening, and Mrs. Walton brought tea up to
them with her own hands, and overwhelmed
them both with a flood of congratulations
which Gerald did not dare to try to stem.
And at seven o'clock, Peggy being very tired,
kind-hearted Mrs. Walton insisted on taking
her up to bed ; and Gerald, as he received the
girl's loving good-night kiss and pressed her
in his arms, felt that confession was growing
every moment more impossible.

He passed the night in a fever which prevented
his taking any rest. As he stood at
the Httle window of his room in the early
morning, watching the first rays of the sun
shining on the glass panes of a studio opposite,
and wishing to goodness that a sudden eclipse
would let him go to sleep, he came to the
conclusion that the only course open to him
was to go boldly to Mr. Beresford as soon as
his errand for Madame de Lancry was accomplished,
and to ask him to let him take
another situation, with a view to getting a
position which would enable him to become a
suitor for Peggy's hand. Having made up
his mind to this course, he felt madly anxious
to get his business in London over; and when,
soon after breakfast, Peggy came downstairs
into Mrs. Walton's sitting-room, she found
him restlessly wandering about the room with
his hat in his hand, not liking to leave the
house without having seen her, and yet eager
to start on his daily journey to the Charing
Cross Hotel.

Why does Madame de Lancry want
you to see Mr. Smith, Gerald ?' asked

Peggy, when they were sitting by the fire
together.

I have to give him a letter from her, as I
told you.'

'' Why couldn't she send it by post ? She
must have some other reason, Gerald."

After the discoveries he had lately made
about the confidential clerk, Gerald thought
this very probable. He wished to keep his
suspicions to himself, however ; but Peggy
saw that something was being kept from her,
and she coaxed, and teased, and guessed, and
suggested, until at last Gerald was forced to
confess that he held something stronger than
mere suspicion that Smith was an accomplice
in the robbery, if not in the murder.

*' Stronger than suspicion ! Oh, Gerald,
do you mean proof V

"Yes; and I have proof of more than
that."

** Of what ? Gerald, Gerald, you can trust
me."

*' I have in my possession the very clue to
the murder that poor Mr. Shaw told us about
the night he slept at Les Bouleaux."

He said these words very slowly, very distinctly,
in a low voice, with his eyes fixed
upon her white quivering face and his hand
laid impressively upon hers. Both remained
for a few seconds very quiet, very still,
breathing heavily, and reading in each other's
eyes the full measure of importance which
each attached to the startling announcement.
Then both started violently at the same
moment, and turned their heads sharply to
the screen before the door. Gerald got up
and looked round it, but nobody was there.

'*I thought I heard somebody come softly
into the room," said he.

*' I'm sure I did," said Peggy.

** You don't mind my leaving you for a
minute, Peggy ?"

She said ''No," and he went out into the
hall. There, talking to the servant, and
glancing about him all the time with his sharp
little black eyes, was Mr. Smith. Gerald
was so much startled that he allowed the
clerk to wring his hand heartily, without
at first having a word to say in greeting.

'* I got to town late last night, and went

to the Charing Cross Hotel, where they gave
me your card, and said you had been calling
incessantly for the last fortnight. So I came
straight up here this morning to find out
what you wanted with me'

** I have a letter to give you'' said Gerald.
And he took it out of his pocket and handed
it to Smith, who changed colour at sight
of the handwriting, and tore the envelope with
clumsy fingers. It contained nothing but a
blank sheet of paper.

Both men were equally surprised by this
discovery, and they glanced suspiciously at
each other, trying to learn the meaning of
the trick from each other's face.

* "Who is this interesting missive from ?"
asked Smith lightly.

** From Madame de Lancry," answered
Gerald. ' If you are going back to the hotel
now, you might let me walk a little way
with you.'

He was anxious to go to the telegraph-office,
anxious to get Smith out of the house
without his having seen Peggy, if indeed it
was not too late already.

The two men walked part of the way down
Portland Place together, and Gerald left the
other as they came near the Bingham Hotel,
on the plea that he wanted to get some
stamps. He then went into the post-office,
and telegraphed the news of Smith's arrival to
Madame de Lancry. When he came out, the
other had disappeared. Gerald hm-red back
to Mrs. Walton's, only to find that the artful
clerk had got back before him. When the
young fellow entered the sitting-room, Smith
was walking up and down, talking volubly,
and with much excitement, while Peggy was
sitting crouched in the armchair by the fire,
in floods of tears.

** He says I must go back, Gerald ; he
says I must go back' she burst out. ' Is
it true ? Must I go ?"

** I don't see how there can be any question
about it, under the circumstances," said
Smith, wagging his head sympathetically.
*' Her father is ill, and has sent for her 
scrawled this note to her with his own hand.
How could any daughter refuse to go ?"

And he gave Gerald a piece of paper, upon

which, in Mr. Beresford's well-known lefthanded
scrawl, were written a few words,
imploring his daughter to come to him.

'' Gerald, you know that, ill or well,
he never wants me," said Peggy piteously.
'' Must I go ?"

*' I'm afraid you must, dear. You can't
refuse to go to your father when he's ill,"
answered he gravely.

Smith looked much relieved by this decision,
and, having fulfilled his purpose, he left the
house, telling them he would call again in the
evening. Some other inmates of the house
came into the room as he went out, and
Gerald and Peggy had no further opportunity
of talking together until after dinner, when a
telegram was brought to the former. He
read it, glanced involuntarily with a troubled
expression at Peggy, and left the room. She
sprang up and followed him into the hall.

'' What is it, Gerald ? It is from Madame
de Lancry, I know. What does it say ?"

I must go to Paris at once, and take the
ring-stone with me," whispered he.

*' Oh, Gerald, and I have to go to that

terrible house, 'Les Bouleaux/ without you!
They will marry me to Victor, I know they
will V

Gerald started, and his face grew hot and
crimson as he caught her in his arms.

'gerald! Gerald!" she whispered, clinging
to him. 'you can save me from that ;
you will, won't you ? Marry me before
I go."

He pressed his Hps to hers as she twined
her arms lovingly, entreatingly, about him.
Her touch, her voice, intoxicated him ; no
reason, no duty, could stand against the charm
she had for him.

My darling, my darling ! I will  I swear
I will !'' he whispered huskily.

As she leaned back her head on his shoulder
in the ill-lighted Httle hall, a shudder passed
over him from head to foot ; for, by some odd
effect of light and shadow, the face of the girl
he loved, and to whom he had just plighted
his faith, brought back to his mind the
clear-cut features of the face that had bent
over his in the darkness of the carriole on
the night of the murder. As she looked up.

feeling him shiver, the odd resemblance was
gone.

But Gerald was still cold from the shock,
as he led Peggy, who was beaming with
excitement and happiness, back into the
sitting-room.

It was with many qualms of conscience that
Gerald, after taking a tender farewell of
Peggy at the sitting-room door, hurried off to
the parish church at which Mr. Hicks had so
opportunely had the banns published, to make
arrangements for his marriage early on the
following: morning;. Under the circumstances,
conscience was bound to have the worst of it ;
and Gerald returned to Mrs. Walton's in an
ecstasy of impatient happiness, against which
the fear of Mr. Beresford's displeasure was
powerless. After all, Peggy was twenty-one ;
she had a right to choose her husband; her
father had never even pretended to care for
her, and it was only by Gerald's own persuasions
that she had consented to obey his

command and return to " Les Bouleaux.'
Gerald's own feeling towards his employer
had undergone a great change. He had had
to acknowledge that Mr. Beresford's kindness
to himself had not been so great or so disinterested
as for six years he had believed it to
be. And although Gerald fought firmly
against the suggestion that the paralytic had
any direct knowledge of the knaveries in
which it was evident that Mr. Smith was
actively concerned, yet the bond between
master and clerk was so strong that it was
impossible to suspect the one without looking
shyly on the other.

Mr. Smith did his very best to remove the
prejudice his eyes, or perhaps his ears, had
told him existed against him in Gerald's
mind. He called in the evening and took the
young fellow to the Alhambra Theatre as
soon as Peggy had gone upstairs. He was
amusing enough when he liked, and against
his will Gerald enjoyed his society more than
the representation of " The Beggar Student,"
which at that time occupied the boards of the
Alhambra. As the curtain fell on the first

act, Mr. Smith jumped up with alacrity from
his seat and pulled his companion up by the arm.

Come and have a drink," said he eagerly.
There's nothing makes one so thirsty as the
front of a theatre  except the backs

These words brought back to Gerald's mind
all the dark suspicions which his companion's
genial manner had caused him for the time to
forget. He allowed himself to be led to one
of the bars, he drank a glass of sherry, as
Smith would take no refusal ; but he steadily
refused to have a second ; and when they returned
to their seats in the balcony, he was
well on his guard against the elder clerk's
efforts to " pump " him.

Awfully clever of you to get a holiday
out of old B. like this. How did you manage
it ?" he began.

Oh, I just took it, and risked the consequences,"
said Gerald, who felt sure that Smith
knew quite as much about the matter as he did.

Ah, well done. Glad to see you pluck up
a spirit. But absconding and abduction !
Rather a far cry from the model clerk to
Robin Hood-cum-Lovelace, ain't it ?"

' Oh, I don't know. One must break out
sometimes," said Gerald, who was not going
to play penitent to Smith.

The eyes of the confidential clerk twinkled
at him curiously.

You have seen Blair since you have been
in London," he said suddenly, with such a
keen look and such an abrupt change of
manner that Gerald felt sure his own face
must betray him as their eyes met. " Come,
come, its no use denying it to me, you know.
"We're old pals, you and I ; I've always liked
you, Gerald, and taken your part with the
governor, and told him his keeping you at
Les Bouleaux," like a rabbit in a hutch, was
rather rough on you. Stow you take my advice,
and don't you go messing about with that
sodden old fool Blair and his grievances; I
don't deny that he may have grievances  we
all have. But his are past mending, and anybody
who meddles with him now  mind, I
give you this warning kindly  is more likely,
much more likely, to burn his own fingers
than to do himself or Blair any good. Now
take this in the right spirit, my boy, and
profit by it.'

There was in the man's geniality of voice
and manner, in the hearty persuasiveness of
his tones, in spite of all his vulgarity of
speech, such a magnetic influence that Gerald,
instead of shrinking back from the touch of
the flabby, plump hand laid on his shoulder,
leant towards him, listening with eager attention,
softened against his will by the now
mild good-natured gaze of the bright black
eyes. Smith had tried that mild gaze before,
and knew how to follow it up effectively.

Look here, Staunton," said he, with a
plaintive, hang-dog bend of the head that
might have touched Miss M'Leod herself,
I'm not the selfish, hard devil you think
me. I've had to do some dirty work, for old
Beresford never walks through the mud but in
somebody else's shoes ; and I haven't much
sympathy for snivelling old idiots that think
any story's better than none  like Blair. But
I have a real liking for you, and I should like
to see you get on ; and as you seem sweet on
that rough-haired little girl, I think the best
thing you can do is to go straight to old B.,
ask him to give you a chance with her, and

VOL. III. 37

last, but not least, get Madame de Lancry to
back you up."

The advice was so genuinely good in
Gerald's eyes that he was disarmed altogether,
and turning his eyes absently towards the
stage, he gave Smith the opportunity of examining
his clothes very carefully, with particular
attention to the arrangement of the
pockets, while he leaned over the younger
man, and affectionately kept a forefinger
hooked into the second buttonhole of his grey
coat.

Look here," he went on persuasively.
' There's nothing like promptitude in these
matters. Why don't you run down to Dover
to-night, cross first thing tomorrow morning,
and attack old B. while your courage is fresh ?
I'll see you as far as Dover, and then come
back to be ready to take Miss Peggy away by
easy stages as soon as she is well enough ; I
expect she won't be long coming round when
she hears somebody is in France before
her."

But Gerald turned quickly, though not
suspiciously, and said hurriedly that that was

impossible. To leave England without Peggy
was not to be thought of.

'' I'm gong right on to Paris first," he continued,
" and I mean to take Miss Beresford
as far as Calais myself. I shall come back as
soon as I have finished the business which
takes me to Paris, and then I shall take your
advice and speak to Mr. Beresford."

'' You will see Madame de Lancry in Paris,"
said Smith quickly, not as a question, but as a
statement.

Gerald could not contradict him.

Well, you be careful what dealings you
have with that woman. She's a slippery fish,
and as artful, double-dealing, shuffling, scheming
a hussy as ever I've come across," said
Smith with feeling.

Do you know her then ?"

Rather !" slipped out involuntarily from
the lips of the elder man, with a heartiness
which astonished Gerald. " Yes, and look
here, you'd better not have anything to do
with her," he continued more quietly. " She's
big game for a young shot like you ; and 
and you'll get into worse trouble than you

372

think if sou trust her further than you can see
her."

He was growing rather incoherent between
his anxiety to be impressive and his consciousness
that his remonstrances with the younger
man were unavailing. After a few uncomfortable
minutes, during which both watched
the performance and listened to the singing
with dull lack of appreciation, Smith jumped
up and dragged Gerald out with him, and
down the staircase and into the street.

Couldn't stand that stuffy hole any
longer," he burst out as they walked fast
along Leicester Square towards Coventry
Street. " Come into Scott's, and let us have
some supper. I'll stand champagne."

No, thanks," said Gerald, " I must cross
by the midday boat tomorrow, and I have
some business to do first, and must get to bed
early. Good-night."

He wrenched his arm with difficulty fi'om that
of his companion, and darted along the pavement
among the crowd so fast and so neatly
that the plump and short-sighted Smith
gave up all hope of pursuit after a few steps.

Curse him !" he muttered, like a little
malignant demon, as he stood on the edge of
the pavement rubbing his spectacles. " I'll
teach him how to treat a gentleman before
I've done with him. And if he won't take
his fingers out of this pie at my bidding, he'll
have to be handed over to some one who
won't treat him quite so gently. There's
something up between him and Miss Peg, I
fancy, to make him so d  d virtuous. I'll
be round there early tomorrow morning, and
find out what's their little game."

But when at nine o'clock on the following
morning Mr. Smith presented himself, fat,
smiling, and with a clean collar, at Mrs.
Walton's door, the " little game " was already
over. Gerald and Peggy had been for an
early walk together, and they were sitting at
breakfast with the landlady and two of her
boarders. Both were very silent, and neither
of them could eat ; and the announcement
that Mr. Smith was in the hall made them
start guiltily, and look at each other in a
furtive manner. Gerald went out to meet
him.

Well, my boy, how are you ? and how's
the little lady ?" asked Smith, with jarring
geniality.

Miss Beresford is so much better that
she's going to cross to-day. We are both
quite ready," said Gerald.

The elder man looked at him keenly
through his spectacles, which he carefully
adjusted for that purpose. But the ecstasy
of quiet happiness which made the young-man's
eyes bright and dreamy defied his
penetration, and woke no suspicion of the
truth in his preoccupied mind. He would, of
course, accompany Miss Beresford to " Les
Bouleaux," he said. Peggy, who had come
out into the hall, received the offer with faint
thanks ; Gerald with none. However, a cab
was called, and they all drove off to Charing
Cross together.

It was a strange journey. Mr. Smith was
careful to secure a compartment in the train
to themselves ; and he insisted on taking
Gerald to the opposite end of the carriage
from that at which Peggy sat, on pretence of
talking with him about the business of the

firm. Gerald submitted most unwillingly,
and cast furtive, longing glances over the
little man's shoulder at the pale girl in the
corner. He was not in a suspicious frame of
mind, being entirely absorbed in wondering
at what point of the journey he should be
able to shake off the portly incubus who was
tormenting him, and to be alone with his
newly married wife for the first time.

But the little bride herself was not so
guileless. Having strong reason to mistrust
Smith as a travelling companion, and sharing
Gerald's belief that the confidential clerk had
overheard the younger man confess that the
clue to the robbery was in his possession, she
cast alternately a glance of love at her young
husband, and one of malice and all uncharitableness
at his companion. As she !craw
Smith becoming every moment more affectionate
and confidential, she quietly changed
her seat for one opposite to them ; and,
nodding at them both easily, said it was unsociable
of them to leave her by herself.
Smith blinked at her with a moment's unconcealed
annoyance, and received a challenge

from her steady, defiant eyes. Gerald grew
hot and red, not quite understanding the
situation, yet knowing that something was
wrong.

At Dover his eyes were opened. Smith
insisted on taking him ' to have a drink ;"
and on his return alone to the carriage in
which they had left Peggy, she seized him by
the arm, guessing at once by his face that
something had happened to alarm him.

Why, your coat is wet through, Gerald !
What have you done ? What has he done to
you?"

Xo thing," said the young fellow, trying
to laugh. " But you were right, Peggy. If
you had not insisted on carrying the stone
yourself, I believe he would have robbed me
of it."

Tell me all about it," said she, white to
the lips, but very quiet.

He upset a great jug of water over me at
the refreshment-bar, and pulled off my coat
before I knew where I was, on pretence of
its giving me cold. He was so quick, so
clever, so fussy, that no one would have

guessed I was being searched ; but a few
moments later he gave me back my pocketbook,
saying he had * picked it up.' If his
cunning didn't make me nervous, I should
laugh at his being ' sold.' As it is, I am so
afraid of his diabolical devices, that I don't
like you to drive even those three miles to
Les Bouleaux ' with him."

I shall be all right, Gerald ; it will be
your turn to be watchful then, as I shall have
to give up the stone to you at Calais. I don't
think he is likely to trouble us much again
before then."

She was right. Mr. Smith disappeared
into the cabin as soon as they got on board ;
not in a shame-faced manner, but with a
cheerful and smiling assurance that he was
going to be very ill. The young husband
and wife, therefore, sat on deck together in
happiness made keener by the parting that
was to come so soon. The thought that
troubled him most deeply was how to win
Mr. Beresford's consent to the step they had
already taken. The anxiety uppermost in
Peggy's mind was the danger that lay before

Gerald on his journey to Paris. But thought
and anxiety were only a dim and hazy background
to the feelings of each, as they sat,
furtively" holding each other's hand, looking
out over the sea in unspeakable trembling
happiness, intoxicated by the first taste of
their innocent love.

Both were very silent. It was not until
from a dim line on the horizon the French
shore had become a clear yet delicate picture,
and the wooden pier stood out, and the long
flat sands that stretched to the left far beyond
Les Bouleaux " were plainly to be seen,
that Peggy turned her eyes, with a shuddering
sigh, to her husband's face.

It will be all over in a few moments now,
Gerald. I knew such happiness as this could
never last."

But the young man felt equal to fifty years
of it, and he shook his head reprovingly.

' You are a silly little creature," said he
tenderly. " Because you never have been
happy is not a reason why you never should
be."

Yes, it is," she answered, her large eyes

wide with vague fears. " I should have been
happy before now if I had been meant to be
happy. When I was away  with you  in
England, I cheated myself into thinking that
I had perhaps made a mistake about myself
until now, and that I was not the victim of
fate, but of my own discontent. But now
that I see those bare, flat sands again, where I
have walked by myself so often, and thought
over all my life, and all the people I have
met, I am in my right mind again ; and I
wish I had never married you, Gerald, to risk
bringing my own ill-luck down upon you."

You are not well yet, my darling ; that is
why everything seems so gloomy to you,'
said Gerald gently. " You can't possibly
bring me worse luck than I have had all my
life, for one thing ; and I think myself that,
now you and I are one, perhaps we shall have
only one load of ill-luck instead of two. Now
don't let Smith see you crying, or he'll tease
you ; he's such a coarse brute. Remember, I
shall see Madame de Lancry this evening, and
if possible return to ' Les Bouleaux ' tonight
; and you may depend upon it that her

influence is strong enough to do anything she
pleases with your father."

But she doesn't like me !"

I've been so successful in my trip to
England that I think she will overlook that."

' Oh, Gerald ! I hope  I dray she will. If
you don't come back to me tomorrow, I think
I shall die!"

She looked so white, so fragile, as she gazed
imploringly at him, that Gerald's heart leapt
up, and for a few mad moments he felt that he
would  he must  risk anything rather than
leave her. But then Smith's voice behind
them, as he staggered along from the cabin,
recalled him to a more prosaic view of life and
its obligations ; and he whispered to her that
she must take courage, and he would come
back to her safely, and they would be happy
together again  she might be sure of that.

And you must give me the stone now,
Peggy ; we shall be on shore in a minute,"
he added, as the boat steamed slovenly past the
head of the old pier.

]Not with that man watching us," she
answered. ' You will let me see you off,

Gerald, and we'll find some opportunity for
you to hide it away. You know how cunning
is."

But ]mr. Smith appeared to have forgotten
everything but the fact that the sea-passage
had tried him sorely. He came up, looking
pale, flabby, and woebegone ; and, piling his
bag and his rug on a seat, leaned against
them in a limp and dejected manner.

I suppose you young people will want to
see the very last of each other ?" said he, with
startling benevolence.

Of course the secretly wedded pair had
flattered themselves that their preference for
each other's society was well concealed.

'' But I should like to say a few words to
you, Gerald, before you start," he continued.

Peggy made no objection to this, since the
stone was still in her keeping. So they all
went into the restaurant of the Hotel de la
Gare ; and, leaving the lady seated at one of
the tables near the fireplace, the two men
retired a few steps to talk.

You know, Gerald, I am a good friend to
you, whatever you think," began Smith in his

most persuasive manner. '' And look here,
it's plain enough that you and little Miss
Peggy are sweet upon each other  and very
natural and right too. jNow I don't think, for
my part, you'll find it half so hard to bring
the old man round as you imagine. I'll do
my best to push your interests, if that'll do
any good. Only you must show yourself a
lad of business capacity, you know, if you
w\nt to find favour with him."

Well, I do my best with whatever I have todo.
There isn't much scope for the display of
original genius in adding up rows of figures."

Xo, no ; I allow that. But I've got a
chance for you to do something more than
that. I am due in Paris myself this evening,
to take an order from M. de Breteuil." Gerald
gave him a suspicious glance which Smith did
not appear to notice. " Now, if you would sacrifice
just so much of your time as it would take
to call upon M. de Breteuil, and take this order
for me, it would prove to Mr. Beresford that
you are fit for something beyond compound
addition, and, moreover, that you can think of
business even when you are taking a holiday."

"I'll gO; of course," said Gerald promptly.

' Very well. Then I'll give you a note to
him to explain that you come instead of me.
He stands very much on his dignity, does this
gentleman."

Smith went into the hotel, and returned in a
few moments with a sealed note directed to
*' M. de Breteuil, Avenue Friedland, Paris."
This he put into Gerald's hands.

Oh, and one thing more, Gerald," he
added carelessly, as he was turning to the
buffet. " Go straight to him the moment you
get to Paris, before you go anywhere else ;
because my appointment with him is for
twenty minutes after the arrival of the train
in Paris. Don't forget this. Take a jiac?'e
and put it down to me."

All right," said Gerald.

Smith did not intrude again upon the young-lovers,
who took a verj gloomy and desponding
leave of one another as the Paris train
went oflp. When Gerald had caught the last
glimpse of his forlorn little bride, he leant
back in the carriage, took out the letter, and
compared the handwriting of the direction

With that of the note which Blair had found in
his pocket on his arrival in Scotland.

Yes, there is no doubt it is the same,"
said Gerald to himself. " And, by-the-bye,
how oddly this M. de BreteuiFs business with
our firm seems to have gone side by side with
this terrible affair. They make as much fuss
about him as if he were an emperor. I feel
quite curious to see him."

The journey to Paris seemed long and tedious
to Gerald, who was torn by anxiety as to the
treatment Peggy would receive at the hands
of the cunning, untrustworthy Smith, the
orthodox Miss M'Leod, and the obstinate Mr.
Beresford. He wondered whether the autocrat
of " Les Bouleaux " had some reason stronger
than a freak for wishing; his daughter to return.
Gerald believed that he must have given up
the project of marrying her to Victor, since
the young Frenchman, as well as his parents,
would certainly decline to ratify an engagement
made with such an erratic young lady
as this last escapade proved Peggy to be.
The young husband tormented himself by
imagining that it was with some thought of
VOL. III. 38

punishment for his daughter's disobedience
that Mr. Beresford had sent for her; and he
was in such a fever of fear about her by the
time he reached Paris that he would have
taken the next train back to Calais if he had
not found, waiting for him at the telegraph -
office, a telegram from Peggy, the contents of
which reassured him.
This was the message :

 Father really ill. Shuts himself up. Woiit
see anybody. Delphine takes this to Calais.
Love:'

With his mind relieved of a great weight,
Gerald jumped into 2i fiacre to fulfil his promise
to Smith that he would go to M. de Breteuil's
house first. He did not suppose that he should
find this errand very difficult. From what
he had heard of the arrogant millionnaire, he
imagined that he should have to waste a
couple of hours in a big, bare, coldly handsome
anteroom, with a dozen more people in
the same predicament, and that he should then
be snubbed by the great man for a couple of

minutes, and sent about his business without
having accomplished anything in particular.
So he turned over his letter of introduction
idly in his hand, and let his thoughts settle
on the more interesting subject of his visit to
Madame de Lancry, and the possible discoveries
to which the signet stone he was carrying
might lead, when once it was placed in her
clever hands.

He had worked himself into such a state of
passionate excitement over the thought that
he was perhaps carrying, at that very moment,
the means of bringing his father's murderer to
justice at last, that when th. fiacre stopped at
the imposing porte cohere of one of the handsomest
mansions in the Avenue Friedland,
Gerald had forgotten for the moment his immediate
errand ; and it was not until he had
paid the driver, and walked mechanically
through the massive iron gates into the courtyard,
that he remembered where he was. He
had just been told, in answer to his inquiry,
that M. de Breteuil was out, and was recrossing
the courtyard, impatient to start for the
hotel where Madame de Lancry was staying,

382

when lie had to step aside quickly for a
victoria, drawn by a pair of chestnut horses,
which rattled in over the asphalte, and was
drawn up sharply at the entrance with a skill
and neatness which made Gerald certain that
the coachman must be an Englishman.

What a splendid turn-out !" he thought
admiringly ; and just as he got to the gates
he glanced back for one more look, and saw
that in noticing the setting he had overlooked
the gem. Standing up in the little carriage,
with her hand upon the back, was a tall lady,
who gave him, in the glimpse he caught of
her, a vivid impression of brocade and feathers.
As she was looking straight at him, he withdrew
his eyes at once, and walked on. He
was on the pavement outside the gates when a
tall servant, in a livery which, to his eyes,
appeared rather too gorgeous to be in good
taste, ran after him, and respectfully asked, in
French, whether monsieur would be good
enough to come back, as madame wished to
have the honour of speaking to him.

Madame !" echoed Gerald, overcome with
shyness at the thought of having to confront

that magnificent feminine creature, the pomp
and circumstance of whose surroundings had
somcAvhat overawed his simple mind. "Madame
deBreteuil!"

Mais oui, monsieur," answered the man ina
tone of respectful insolence, which Gerald
interpreted to mean that the lady was not
popular among her servants.

The young fellow turned back reluctantly,
followed his conductor up a wide, shallow-stepped
marble staircase, with a balustrade of
elaborate ironwork on the one side and a
painted wall on the other, to the first-floor,
where he was led along a corridor, the whole
length of one side of which was one long
window, darkened by stained glass, by high
tropical plants in a conservatory on the other
side, and by tapestry draperies, which hung in
festoons from the ceiling. The opposite wall
was of carved dark oak, picked out with gold.
The carpet, which was laid down in the middle
of the polished floor, was so thick as to deaden
the heaviest tread ; and Gerald thought, as he
followed the servant to the door at the end,
that a good comfortable workhouse would be

more to his taste than this silent and gloomy
magnificence.

He was ushered into a very large and very
lofty room, which altered his opinion. For,
little as Gerald knew of anything but the outside
of great houses, he was struck at once by
the fact that in this apartment exceptional
judgment had been used in making the most
both of height and space. The tapestries which
hung on the walls were wide, and reached
from the painted ceiling to the polished floor,
while the looking-glasses between which they
fell were of the same height. The chairs and
couches in the room were all high-backed and
large, less ambitious seats being provided in
cushions of pseudo-Oriental pattern, which
were strewn in piles of two and three on rugs
about the polished floor. The room was
neither bare nor overcrowded, but everything
in it was on such a scale as not to be dwarfed
by the surroundings. Palms in huge porcelain
bowls filled the corners ; an embroidered
screen, nine feet high, stood by the fire-place,
which was of old-fashioned English pattern,
lofty, oaken, heavily carved ; and the curtains

which draped the entrance to another room atone
end 'severe caught up by what Gerald afterwards
artlessly described as 'tropes of gold."

It's too big for anything human to live
in," commented he critically, as, finding that
he was left to himself for a considerable time,
he began to wander about softly, wondering
from what corner the queen of this surprising
place would appear to him, and what remarkable
attributes she would possess to distinguish
her as much from the women he had met asher
home was distinguished from the abodes
of meaner mortals. He had time to go from
end to end of the room, and to peep through
the hanging curtains into the next apartment,
which was smaller, and decorated and furnished
like an " Arabian Nights' " vision seen in a
Parisian's dream.

Not the real thing at all, I should say, but
much more comfortable," thought Gerald, detecting
a European neatness about the fringe
of the carpets, and observing that the lanterns
which were suspended overhead were fitted up
for the electric light.

He was advancing two steps into the second

room to admire the ingenuity of this arrangement,
when the sound of a turning handle
made him retreat hastily into the room into
which he had been ushered. As he did so,
however, he was in time to see a rather large
gloved hand and wrist sparkling with bracelets
thrust from behind a portiere that
screened the door through which the lady was
coming.

Gerald listened to the rustle of heavy silk,
to the rattle of many beads, and to a distinctly
heavy step on the floor of the intervening
room, with curiosity and some surprise. A
quiet life had made him observant, and, long
before he caught another glimpse of the lady,
he knew that her refinement was not equal to
her splendour. As she drew near the curtains
which divided the rooms, Gerald stepped forward
with a low bow ; then he raised his head,
met her eyes, and fell back with an irrepressible
exclamation of astonishment  of
horror. For the beautiful creature before him,
in low-cut, trained gown of rose and coffee-coloured
satin, heavy with pearl embroidery,
which impeded her clumsy movements and

yet showed oiF the animal beauty of her
amazonian figure, child-ike blue eyes, and
silky fair hair, was the gamekeeper's daughter,
Babette. Her arms were encased in long pale
gloves that reached to the shoulder; on the
fair white skin of her neck hung a double
string of pearls ; her soft hair, piled high on
her head in coquet and coils, held a tuft of
rose and coffee-coloured feathers and more
pearls ; the sunny brown skin of her face was
artificially whitened. But it was a triumph
of millinery, not of mind, and at the first
straightforward glance of sorrow and disgust
from Gerald's honest eyes, the ignorant creature's
peacock dignity gave way, and she stood
there before him, stupidly picking out the
feathers of her satin fan, with her frizzed and
fluffy head hung bashfully down, just as the
summer before she had pulled out the petals
of a daisy with her red-brown fingers, while
he thought the soft fringe of hair that escaped
from under her cap on to her sunburnt neck
the prettiest thing in the world.

Oh, Babette !" said he in heartfelt sorrow
and reproach.

I am pretty like that, am I not ?" said she,
raising her head hardily, and betraying to the
yomig fellow's shocked eyes that the confusion
she felt under his glance was the old false
shame, with but a faint trace of any nobler
feeling. He had overrated the capacity for
good in this blunt, coarse nature, in the old
days when bashfulness under a cotton cap had
looked so like sweet modesty. Perhaps it was
the fact that his heart was filled by another
woman that helped him to be keen-sighted
now. At any rate, this speech betrayed her.

"No, Babette, I shall never think you
pretty again until T see you back in your blue
frock and your sabots," said he simply.

You don't admire handsome things, then,"
said she scornfully, walking past him so that
he might be impressed by the length of her
train and the height it gave to her figure;
she had already discovered that.

Yes," he answered quietly, '' I like
handsome things on people who are used to
them."

'' Well, I shall be used to them soon," said
she, turning round upon him quickly and

awkwardly, but showing instantly to more
advantage as cano-er made her natural.

'I hope not," said he, as gravely as a
preacher, " I hope that before the person who
was wicked enough to dress you up in these
things, that don't suit you, gets tired of seeing
you in them, you will find out yourself how
silly you have been, and go back of your own
accord to the old cottage, and the cows that
you used to be so fond of, and your poor
grandmother, and  er  and your  er  your
father."

He could not find an attractive adjective
for Monnier, so the end of his speech was
rather abrupt. Babette tossed back her head
sharply', and a little curl fastened to a hairpin
fell down to the ground.

'' Oh, yes; and feed the pigs, I suppose, and
wash the floor, and get scolded."

"Why, Babette," said Gerald, who had
detected nervous glances which she cast from
time to time at the doors, " you get scolded
now." She started and stared at him. He
went on, "And now, you know, you don't
dare to say a word back. You used to work

hard, and when anybody grumbled at you,
you knew you were m the right, and you
could answer saucily. But now you are
nothing but a poor dressed-up doll, and you
scarcely dare to walk, lest you should show
that you miss your sabots, or to turn round
for fear of tumbling over your train and
offending '

He stopped short, having grown in a
moment quite white and cold. In the
astonishment, grief, and disgust he had felt
at the sight of the transfigured Babette, he
had forgotten for the time his suspicion that
it was the murderer of Mr. Shaw who had runaway
with her.

'' What is it ? What is the matter, M.
Gerald ?" she asked with real solicitude.

Babette," said he huskily, seizing one of
her gloved arms and speaking with earnestness
which made him shake from head to foot,
"who is this M. de Breteuil ? Was it he
that used to come about the place after you
at * Les Bouleaux ' ? Tell me, for God's sake
tell me !"

But the woman was trembling ; he saw at

once that he had frightened her too much for
her to be frank with him. She only muttered
Let me go, let me go," and fought herself
free from him with troubled eyes, like a teased
and timid child.

Xo, no," she said at last, very peevishly ;
I met M. de Breteuil in Paris, and I wish he
would come in now, and have you turned out
for frightening me. Don't you know I am a
great lady now, and you mustn't treat me as if
I was just a peasant-girl, like I used to be."

She was the peasant-girl still, if she had
only known it, as she wriggled about uncomfortably
in her beautiful dress, and suddenly
kicked off her light shoes as she used to do
her old sabots. As soon as she saw what she
had done, she threw herself down on a sofa
and burst into tears of mortification. Gerald
looked at her for a few moments, and then,
seeing that in this new and exciting situation
he should get no help from her, he went
quickly and softly towards the door by which
he had come in.

But before he had reached it she looked up,
sprang to her feet with a loud cry, and rushed

helter-skelter along the room to him, tumbling
over her gown at every step, her arms
stretched out, her hair falling down  a
miserable and ridiculous object.

"Don't go away; don't go away! You
are right, M. Gerald ; I am foolish, I
am unhappy. Don't go away yet. Perhaps
you can tell me something, and I want to know
so much. Look, look ! if you will stay 1 wall
take off all these things, and you shall treat
me just as you please."

And the excited creature pulled out the
ornaments from her hair, the pearls from her
neck, and tore her gloves to strips under the
frantic efforts of her muscular fingers to oet
them off. Gerald stopped and watched her in
perfect silence and stillness, exactly as he
would have watched a arose mastiff hurting
itself with its chain in its attempt to detain its
master. The tears came into his eyes.

Of course I will stay and hear whatever
you want to say," he said gently. "And if I
can only help you to Le happy again, I will.
But 3'Ou must let me go soon, as I have some
very important business to attend to."

The poor fellow was indeed on fire with
impatience to be by himself, and with anxiety
not to risk meeting M. de Breteuil luitil he
had seen Madame de Lancry. He led the
panting creature to one of the colossal couches
which he had admired so much, but she
pushed him down upon it and stood before
him, leaning against the oaken mantelpiece
in shamefaced excitement which moved and
melted him.

I don't like this place  I am unhappy and
frightened," said she incoherently. " Already
he is changed in these last two weeks. When
he is cold, he is like ice  so hard, so stern ;
and when he is gay, he is like fire  like fire.
Oh, he frightens me ! I do not like him  I
hate him !"

Well, why don't you run away from him,
and go back to your father's cottage, you silly
girl ? If he isn't very good-tempered, and if
your grandmother is tiresome, why, at least,
you can do as you please, and you need not
be afraid of anybody," said Gerald, who saw
that it was a mistake to take high moral
ground as a standpoint in dealing with her.

Oh, bust it was my father T'ho sent me
away ; and noy that there seems to be a sort
of suspicion about that he was mixed up with
the wolf scare, he is afraid he is no longer
in favour with Mr. Beresford, and so he
must take precious care to keep well with 
,with "

Well, well ; with whom ?"

But she did not answer. Her large round
blue eyes were turned in terror towards the
nearest of the high Windows, her mouth was
open, her limbs were shaking. Before Gerald
could understand what new trouble had seized
her, she shrank back, like an overgrown
frightened child, against the corner of the
carved fire-place.

' What is the matter, Babette ?"

Don't you hear the carriage in the courtyard
?" she asked in a hoarse whisper. " He
has come back, and when he finds how I have
been behaviour will scold me."

She shook out the folds of her beautiful
gown, looked at herself in one of the long
glasses with an exclamation of despair at the
havoc which the excited movements of the

last ten minutes had wrought in her appearance,
and began hurriedly to try to pull on
one of the torn gloves. Suddenly a red flush
overspread her face, from which her hot hands
had, during the last few minutes, removed the
thick coating of rice-powder.

He mustn't find you here !' she said, in a
tremulous voice. "He would kill me if he
was jealous, in the humour he has been in
for the last few days. Come here."

She seized his hand in a muscular grip
which was physically irresistible, half led, half
dragged him the whole length of the two
rooms, pulled aside the northerly opened the
door behind it by which she had herself
entered, thrust him into a little over-furnished
boudoir, and, before he could protest, turned
the key in the lock and left him a prisoner.
A moment later Gerald heard a man's step
and a man's voice in the room he had just
left.

VOL. III. 39

Gerald was still staggering from the last
push of Babette's strong hands, when the
heavy man's tread in the next room stopped,
and for a few seconds there was dead silence.
The young fellow came back to the door, and
turned the handle, madly anxious to meet
this man. But it was locked. Then through
the heavy curtain on the other side came the
muffled sounds of Babette's voice in abject
apology and entreaty for forgiveness.

I have been to sleep," she faltered, '' on
the sofa there, and the cushions have tumbled
my hair."

*' Tumbled your hair !" echoed a man's
hard, grating voice. " And torn your gloves,
and disarranged your dress, and made you

cry ! It is a great deal for a cushion to do !"
Then, after a moment's pause, in a voice of
tenfold greater harshness, '' You have been
romping with one of the servants !"

No, I haven't  no, I haven't. Oh,
monsieur  oh, Louis ! nobody has been near
me, indeed. You are very unkind. For the
last fortnight you have been always irritable,
always hard. And I have done nothing,
nothing to make you so. I've been a lady
every day until just now, and not burst my
dress, or torn anything, or knocked anything
over for three da3s."

You seem to have been making up for
your abstinence."

She went on mumbling excuses, without
getting any further answer, until, by an impatient
exclamation, her master signified that
he had had enough of them ; and Gerald
guessed, by the little scream she uttered as her
train rustled towards the door by which he was
standing, that she was being pushed towards
it. The next sound he heard was the hard
voice speaking close to the other side of the
door.

392

'ego back to your maids, and let them
dress you, and make you fit to be seen again.
I dine at the British Embassy this evening.
But if you are good, I will take you for a
drive afterwards, if the night is warm
enough."

The woman mumbled an abject assent, and
crouched by the door quite still, While the
heavy tread of the man grew fainter in the
distance as he crossed the two rooms. Gerald,
in intense excitement, drew from his pocket
the letter entrusted to him by Mr. Smith, and
knocked softly at the door which shut him in.

Let me out, Babette  let me out," he
whispered. " I must see M. de Breteuil before
he leaves the house. He need not know I
have been in here. Let me out, there's a
good girl ; it's very important."

But all the answer he got was a frightened
'* Sh  sh !" and for fully ten minutes he entreated,
and she listened without answering,
until the sound of wheels in the courtyard
attracted his attention. He looked out of the
window of the boudoir, and saw a small dark
coupe i drawn by horses quite as handsome as

those he had admired in the victoria, drive
rapidly out at the gate. Then Babette unlocked
the door, and he dashed past her impatiently,
with Smith's letter in his hand.

You can't catch him now  he's gone too
far," she cried nervously. '' What's that in
your hand ? What do you want of him ?"

What time will he be back ?" asked
Gerald, stopping suddenly, and speaking with
some irritation. ''I have to see him most
particularly on business  I have a letter of
introduction to him ; and these silly fears and
fancies of yours have put me to great inconvenience."


She came slowly and ponderously towards
him as he spoke, with an anxious and sly
look in her eyes which he was too much preoccupied
to notice. As soon as she was near
enough, she snatched the letter out of his
hand, drew back a couple of steps, turned
sharply round, and pulled ois the envelope so
clumsily that she tore the letter.

Business  business ! What is it ? More
secrets, I suppose," she said viciously, as she
turned the short note about in her hot hands

without reading it. " And he thinks he'll get
the better of me by forbidding me to learn to
read. But I'll be even with him. I can
make out a lot of words already when they're
wrote clear ; not like this "  with a contemptuous
slap on the letter she held. " And
if he tries any tricks with me, I'll just make
off with his precious papers  I know where
they're kept  simple as I am."

Gerald watched this new change in her
with astonishment and disgust. Then he
stepped towards her, and held out his hand,
saying very quietly :

Now give me back that letter. You have
done enough mischief for one day to satisfy
even you, I should think."

She yielded to his tone of authority, and
put the torn note awkwardly into his hand,
pushing uj) one shoulder into her ear with
shy petulance as she did so.

Thank you. Good-evening," said Gerald
shortly ; and without another word he turned
away from her, and crossed the two handsome
rooms in which the dusk of evening: was
already casting grim shadows.

He shuddered as he cast a last look at the
forlorn, half-tamed animal who stood, miserable
and downcast, by one of the windows of the
inner room, her coarse beauty refined and
idealized by the dim half-light, longing to call
back again the one honest friend who was
leaving her, restrained from doing so by the
respect which his simple gravity had imposed
upon her.

I can't do anything for her," thought
Gerald ; " perhaps Madame de Lancry can."

He passed from the drawing-room to the
dark corridor, where little globes of electric
light suddenly flashed into brightness on the
walls as he entered. At the other end a
servant was standing, who opened the doors
on to the staircase, and accompanied him
down into the hall ; and it was with a feeling
of relief and exultation that Gerald found himself
outside the house, and on his way to the
Hotel du Louvre.

Madame de Lancry was at home ; so Gerald
went upstairs, and knocked at the door of her
sitting-room.

' Come in !" said the General's voice.

No sooner did the young man's face appear
in the doorway than, with a loud exclamation
of satisfaction, General de Lancry, who was
alone in the room, jumped up from his chair
with surprising nimbleness, and came forward
to lead him into the room.

"Welcome, welcome," said he eagerly.
Madame expects you, I know. She has
been crazy for the last half-hour because you
are late. You telegraphed that you would be
here this evening, and the Calais train has
been in for some time. You waited to dine
somewhere, I suppose ?"

It was half-past eight. The gas-light
showed the still untouched dessert on the
glistening white tablecloth, bright with silver
and glass and flowers. The sight reminded
Gerald that he was ravenously hungry.

"I had a business-call to make for the
firm," said he.

Ah ! And "  dropping his voice to a
mysterious whisper, and glancing at the door
of his wife's room  " did the little lady find
you? ISTot a breath about that to madame,
you understand ! I've tried to put in a word

now and then for you both, but it's of no use
no use ;" and he shook his head gloomily.
She is very determined on some points, you
know ; and she went as far one day as to say
that marriage with that little girl would be
your ruin  she did, indeed. So I wouldn't
press it, if I were you ; I'd look out for a
chance of taking her unawares with the announcement
of your attachment, just as I
mean to do with the information that I'm no
longer an invalid. Do you see ? Sh  sh !
She's coming in !"

The General slid down into his chair again
hastily as his wife came into the room. She
looked rather thin and worn, and would have
looked pale if that had not been a calamity
which she knew how to avoid. Her great
eyes seemed to burn with some fierce fire, and
the strong self-control through which her
words and manner appeared cold and listless
told Gerald, who noticed her keenly, and who
knew something of her state of mind, that
the sport was growing exciting. The glance
she cast at her husband as she came in showed
plainly that she wished that well-meaning

gentleman anywhere but in her presence. She
gave Gerald a long, straight look from her
shining eyes, as if to read without delay the
tidings he brought her ; gave a low sigh of
impatience as she shook his hand ; gently
pushed him into a chair, and poured out a
glass of wine.

"You have had no dinner, poor boy, I
know," she said.

And while her husband broke out into exclamations
of pity and astonishment, she rang
the bell, and ordered that dinner should be
served again at once. Then she threw herself
back in a low, deep chair, and effaced herself,
leaving Gerald to the mercies of the
General, who chatted on placidly to him,
delighted to have such a congenial companion,
until the young fellow had satisfied his
hunger and was able to give him more attention.
As he leaned back in his chair for the
first time, Madame de Lancry sprang up from
hers like a tigress on the watch.

I am afraid I am too tired to drive with
you to-night, Gustave," said she to her
husband, whilst the fierce excitement from

which she was suffering; beo:an to tell at last
in the restless glances of her eyes and in the
nervous twitching of her hands ; "do you
mind going without me for once ?''

' Well, really, Madeline, I don't care to go
out without you. I can give up my drive for
one night. You know I am not an invalid
now," said her husband, with a transparently
jealous look at Gerald.

His meek self-abnegation was not well received.
Madame de Lancry crossed the room
rapidly to the door of her own compartment,
resting her hand for a moment on Gerald's
shoulder as she passed him.

Very well, it is just as you please. You
won't mind my going out for a quarter of an
hour, just to help this poor boy to find a
lodging for the night, will you ?"

Without waiting for an answer, she disappeared
into her own room, from which she returned
in a very few seconds with her arms
thrust hastily through the sleeves of a long
ruby plush mantle trimmed with feathers, a
small bonnet of the same colour on her head,
and her gloves in her hands. She nodded farewell

to her husband, who was still looking
rather disconsolate, put her hand through
Gerald's arm, and left the room with him. As
soon as they were sitting side by side in an
open fiacre her composure gave way. After
directing the driver to drive to the Champs
Elysees, she turned to Gerald, whispering in a
voice hoarse from excitement :

The stone ! You have it with you ; let
me see it.'

He opened his pocket-book and gave her
the envelope in which the treasure was contained.
She made him take out one of the
carriage-lamps to see it by. He watched her
face, but it did not light up as if she recognised
either stone or crest.

You have not seen it before ?" he asked,
curious and disappointed.

' No ; the crest is quite unknown to me."

Then you don't think it will be of any
value ?"

Of the greatest possible value, when we
find some one who can identify it."

*' You know some one who can ?"

I think so. You will trust me with this ?"

Of course, madame."

You did not see Lord KingscliiFe again
after the interview you described in your
letter ?"

No, madame. Did I tell you about Lord
KingsclifFe's curious resemblance to Mr. Beresford
?"

*' What a strange fancy !"

She said these few words after a short
pause, in a constrained voice, without the
spontaneity of carelessness or surprise. Yet
she was much interested.

Is he an old man ?"

' Very. And he is said to be very wicked.
I suppose you don't think, madame, that this
this scapegrace relation he spoke about,
who robbed him fourteen years ago, could be
could be "

"Mr. Beresford? Oh, Gerald, isn't that
something like heresy ?"

The young fellow grew scarlet in the darkness.


'' I have heard and seen such strange things
lately, madame, that I begin to think there is
only one good person in all the world "

And that is, of course, myself ?"

Gerald gave a perceptible start.

Ah, then it is not I."

You are out of the range of my judgment,
madame; but I am sure you are everything
that is noble and true,' said he evasively.
*' And now I have a question to ask that has
been burning my tongue ever since I saw you,
and I beg that you will be kind enough to
answer me. Is the man on whose track we
both are, the murderer of my father, of Mr.
Shaw, the man you hate and are hunting
down M. de Breteuil ?"

He could learn nothing from her look,
words, or manner. She repeated the name,
and asked :

What suggested Mr. Beresford's great
client to you ?"

*'I was at his house to-day, on my way
here "  Madame de Lancry was moved at
last, her head turned slightly towards him 
and I learnt some curious things about this
rich man. The daughter of Mr. Beresford's
gamekeeper is installed there like a princess ;
she herself speaks of him as a mystery to her.

and says that he has grown nervous and
irritable during the last few days, that she
hates him, and will steal his papers and use
them against him if he does not treat her
better."

"She said all this to you to-day  this
evening !" said Madame de Lancry, much
excited.

Yes. And she speaks of him as if he
were hard and cruel. I myself, as soon as I
heard his voice "

You heard his voice !" echoed the lady
sharply. " You did not see him ?"

Xo, madame," answered Gerald in a very
quiet voice, drawing his own conclusions from
her excitement, " I did not see him. He left
the house while I was there to dine at the
British Embassy."

She asked no more questions, and for sometime
they drove on in silence. At last she
took out her watch, saw that it was half-past
ten, and told the driver to go to the Rue du
Faubourg Saint Honore. She stopped him at
the British Embassy, and sent Gerald to ask
the concierge whether Mr. Paget Lennox was

there this evening; and, if so, whether he
would kindly come out and speak to her.

In a few minutes a tall young attache with
a long aquiline nose, a retreating chin, a
drooping fair moustache, and vacant large
eyes, came out and leant over the side of the
fiacre with every appearance of being delighted
with the unexpected call. He was in evening-dress,
over which he wore a light overcoat.

You have been dining here this evening ?"
asked the lady. " I guessed that you would
be. Jump in, if you have nothing better todo,
and tell me what everybody wore and
what everybody said, to amuse me. I have
been bored to death all day."

Mr. Lennox glanced at Gerald, who
modestly changed his seat to the uncomfortable
little shelf behind the driver, to make
way for the newcomer.

Oh, this poor boy  Mr. Staunton, Mr.
Lennox  has crossed from England to-day,
and he is far too tired to talk to me. Now,
first, you had the interesting millionnaire, M.
de Breteuil, at dinner, I know. What did he
talk about?"

'' Madame de Lancry, you are a fairy ; I
always thought you were, but now I am sure.
The most interesting thing that was said at
dinner this evening came from the lips of the
very person you mention first."

Well, well, and what was it ?"

He electrified us all by declaring that he
is tired of the Parisian's life, and that he intends
to return before long, without any warning, in
his best Arabian Mghts' manner, to  Canada,
I think he said. That is his native place, isn't
it ?"

I'm sure I don't know, but that is very
interesting. He said he should go without
warning ?"

Yes, madame."

Ah !" She paused, and then said carelessly,
"Now for the others, what new story
did you hear ? What dresses did you
see ?"

But from this point Gerald knew that her
interest in the occurrences of the evening was
assumed ; and when Mr. Lennox had been set
down, at his request, just above the " End
Point," the young Englishman had no further

VOL. III. 40

questions to ask as to the reason of her interest
in M. de Breteuil.

What made you go to M. de BreteuiFs house
this evening ?' she asked suddenly, as, by her
directions, they drove towards the street where,
six years ago, Gerald had found a modest
lodging while he was in Paris, hunting for
the murderer of his father.

Mr. Smith asked me to go there as soon
as I arrived in Paris, about an order which
M. de Breteuil had given."

'' Mr. Smith sent you !"

'' Yes ; he gave me a letter of introduction."

'' Which you presented ?"

I had no opportunity. The girl  the girl
I told you about, madame  snatched it out of
my hands and tore it before my eyes. See, I
could not offer it again like that."

He took from his pocket the note which
Babette's ruthless fingers had torn and
crumpled.

*' Give it to me," said Madame de Lancry.

He knew she was going to take unlawful
advantage of this opportunity of reading a
letter to some one else, but he had not the

strength of mind to refuse. He gave it to her
and she read it twice  first to herself, and
then aloud.
It was this :

Gerald Staunton, who brings this letter to
you. has the signet-stone in his possession. I
have tried to get it, and have failed. If you
try, you won't fail. Don't hurt the boy if you
can help it. He's a good little chap''

Madame de Lancry shuddered as she folded
the letter carefully and retained it in her own
hands.

' My boy, my boy," she said, turning to
Gerald with real kindness and feeling in her
beautiful eyes, " can't you see what weak
weapons your own honour and honesty are
against such cold-blooded and cunning
wretches as these ? It wants something
stronger than righteousness to fight them.
You must not take one step without consulting
me. Trust me, I will give you work
enough before lono;."

Gerald bowed his head in silence, shocked

402

and miserable. The image of his darling, his
newly married wife, was forced from his mind
once more by that of the treacherous Smith and
of his more mysterious accomplice. But when
Madame de Lancry left him at the door of his
lodging, and he lay down to rest in his little
room, the horrors of the evening seemed to
fade away like a past nightmare, and his last
thought about Peggy was one of perfect happiness
and peace.

She is safe, far away from all this," he
said to himself sleepily. " Her father is her
father after all, and she is too sweet and pure
for even a devil like Smith to wish to do her
harm."

And so he fell asleep quite happily.

Gerald Staunton's first thought, as he sprang
the next morning into the sudden and complete
wakefulness which follows a night of
long and sound sleep, was that he must go
back at once to " Les Bouleaux " and Peggy.
His experience of the day before had influenced
his dreams, and they in turn influenced him
now, with the vague but violent force of
prophecy.

His night-fancies, strong upon him still,
were of danger to his darling ; and all the
time that he dressed hurriedly, breakfasted at
a cafe and walked towards the Hotel du
Louvre to say good-bye to Madame de Lancry,
he wondered how he could have dared to leave
his poor little bride in the neighbourhood of
her selfish father and his unprincipled clerk.

'' If Mr. Beresford is still bent on her marrying

Victor, they will worry her life outs
he thought. " She will never dare to own
that she is my wife ; and if she did, they
would never rest till they had found out some
cruel means of punishing her."

He reached the hotel, and waited some
minutes alone in the sitting-room where he
had dined the evening before ; he was frantic
with impatience by the time Madame de
Lancry at last appeared, in a morning-gown
of peach-tinted lace that would have taken his
breath away if he had been less anxious, restless,
and blind to everything but the mental
image of Peggy.

I have come to say good-bye, madame,"
said he, rushing towards her as if his train
were already in sight.

Good-bye  oh no!" said she quite calmly,
detaining his hand in a strong grip which
made him involuntarily thankful that the girl
he had married was not of the Amazonian
build of the two ladies between whom he had
been recently shuttlecock. " Did I not tell
you last night that I should have some work
for you to do ?"

Gerald knew that this majestic lady took a
real interest in him  knew that her counsel
and support were likely to lead to results
quite as valuable to himself as to her. Yet
he could not help a feeling of irritation at her
imperial manner of taking for granted that
what she had for him to do must necessarily
be of more importance than what he had todo
for himself

I will come back, madame, and do whatever
you wish. But I am still in Mr. Beresford's
employment, and I am still bound to
attend to his wishes," he said quietly, looking
at the carpet,

Then it is by Mr. Beresford's wishes that
you are in such a hurry to return to ' Les
Bouleaux ' ? Or by Miss Beresford's ?''

Gerald did not answer. He thought the
lady was presuming upon the rights her kindness
gave her. She was not in the least
disconcerted by his cold silence, however;
throwing herself on to a sofa, she glanced at a
chair that stood near, as an invitation for him
to sit beside her.

Very reluctantly he did so.

*' Miss Beresford has returned to ' Les
Bouleaux ' then, I suppose? I heard that she
left it suddenly after your departure for
England."

I believe she has returned, madame."

I see. You met her in England ?"

Why not, madame ? A man may love
whom he pleases : and if he is thrown into the
society of a sweet and charming girl by parents
who look upon her only as merchandise, it is
the parents' fault, and not either his or hers, if
he learns to love her with all his soul, and
tells her so, and  and sticks to it."

The last words were not poetical, and Gerald
felt this. But in a difficulty a lame end to a
sentence is better than none, and it sufficiently
intimated that he did not intend to be
majestically badgered out of his attachment.

"And you mean to marry her ?"

Yes."

Well, you must not. You think this is a
caprice of mine, but it is not ; and when I dare
to tell you my reason for speaking so strongly,
you will agree with me."

She sprang up from the sofa, to Gerald's

bewilderment, and began pacing about the
room.

"Well, madame, tell me your reason at
once  that is only fair to me," said the young
man passionately. " You told me, before I
left Calais on your errand, that in less than a
fortnight  I think those were your words  I
should be free to marry Peggy "

If you chose. I think I added that  did
I not?"

Yes. The fortnight is over, and I have
chosen."

I thought when I said those words  I
admit that I did say them  that events would
follow each other a little more quickly than
they have done. I thought that within two
weeks from then you would have learnt certain
facts of which you are still in ignorance, which
would make you prefer to make the poorest
creature that earns her living in the streets
your wife rather than that girl."

If her voice, her face, had not betrayed an
unaccountable hatred of Peggy, which repelled
his confidence, Gerald would have confessed
that his employer s daughter was already his

wife. As it was, the very violence of Madame
de Lancry's prejudice reassured him as to the
idleness of her vague accusations, even while
it excited his curiosity as to her reason for
making them. That Peggy's ill-protected,
wandering life had been as innocent as that of
the cloistered nun of a fanatic's imagination,
he would have staked his very life. Then
what wild fancy made this lady hate her  a
girl whom she had scarcely seen ?

Indeed, Madame de Lancry, the facts that
would destroy my love for  for Peggy Beresford
would have to be very appalling indeed."

That I can believe. But as your love,
however deep it may be, must be destroyed,
the sooner you learn those facts the better."

Certainly, madame. I am ready to hear
them now*'

Very well. Wait for me one moment."

"Can you not tell me now, madame? I
want to get to the station."

She almost stamped her foot.

No, you must wait for me," she said imperiously.


But she did not put his patience to any very

severe test. Within five minutes she had left
him and returned dressed in black, and wearing
a short black veil. This attire she had
put on in accordance with the feminine superstition
that to dress from head to foot in black
is a method of escaping observation ; and
Gerald followed the tall dark column downstairs,
wondering where she was going to take
him. They got into a cowper and, crossing the
Seine, drove through an old and dirty quarter
of Paris quite unfamiliar to Gerald, and stopped
at the door of a dingy, fourth-rate hotel. Here
they got out, and Madame de Lancry looked,
with much evident interest, up at the windows
as they passed into the courtyard.

Your father was in this hotel, Gerald, the
night before his death," she said to the young
man, leaning heavily upon his arm, much
moved by the recollection of the events which
the dreary old house recalled to her mind.

Gerald echoed her last words in an awestruck
whisper as they passed through the
doorway, and madame asked the stout lady ina
shepherd's plaid dress, with a broad 
n white collar and large cerise bow, who

sat in the bureau, and smiled at the strangers,
whether she knew the present address of a
woman called Rosalie, who had been head
chambermaid at the hotel eleven years ago.

*' Ah, in my father-in-law's time ! I remember,
madame. Yes, she has retired now, and
lives at Pass. I can give madame her address."

She wrote it down, smiled as benignly at
the well-dressed strangers as if they had been
valuable customers, and sent the seedy waiter
to see them to their carriage. They drove
almost in silence through the dull suburbs
until they came to the cottage  it was scarcely
more where the ex-chambermaid had retired
on her savings.

She must have been a thrifty woman, that
was clear ; for the little house and garden
looked trim, prosperous, and not without pretensions
to more than the bare necessaries of
life in its jardinieres, striped blinds, and particularly
elaborate scraper. A white-capped,
neat maid opened the door, and showed the
strangers into a small salon, which proved the
limitations of the ex-chambermaid's experience,
as it was furnished with the second-hand

smartness of a room in a cheap hotel, while
the mantel-piece was piled high with plaster
images of saints, and with ugly painted china
vases full of tawdry artificial flowers.

Madame Rosalie did not keep them long
waiting. She was not much changed, Madeline
thought, as the spare, bright-eyed woman
came in, wearing a cap and dark stuff gown,
as of old, but with the dignity of leisure in
her manner. She shut the door and came
slowly forwards towards her visitors, peering
at them in the old keen manner, until, as the
tall lady in black held out her hand, she fell
back a step with a cry :

'' Mon Dieu ! C'est Madame de Breteuil !"

Gerald grew white and cold, but did not
move. Madame de Lancry glanced hastily at
him, and gave a short, hard laugh.

Xo, Rosalie. You are making some
strange mistake. I am Madame Louis, whom
you helped and were kind to eleven years ago.
Since then my husband has died, and I have
married again."

"Ah!" said the woman shortly, glancing in
her turn at Gerald.

And this is the new husband ?"

' No, no ; this is an unlucky young fellow
whom I want you to help, in the goodness ot
your heart, as you once helped me."

She spoke rapidly, being really disconcerted
by the abrupt discovery that Rosalie knew
even more than she expected.

''Ah!" said the woman again, dubiously.
Monsieur does not want his clothes sold, I
suppose ?"

No. He wants to learn all he can about
the past life of M. de Breteuil. It is a matter
of life and death to him."

I should have thought madame would
have been able to assist him better than I."

Back to a certain point I can. Further
back than that you can, I think. Eleven
years ago you said that you held a marketable
secret concerning M. de Breteuil. Bring it to
market now, and you will find that you did
not deceive yourself about its value."

Apparently, Rosalie's philanthropy had
grown rusty with years, for it Alas not until,
by a slight but intentional movement of her
left hand, Madame de Lancry allowed her

purse to peep out from the lace that fell round
the sleeve of her mantle, that the woman's
eyes began to brighten and her face to show
strong interest.

Ah, yes, so I did!" said she thoughtfully.
' You have grown rich again then, madame,
since I knew you at the hotel, and since that
day when I met you "

'' Yes," interrupted the lady coldly, '' I
am rich now, and I can pay for your secret
well."

Ah ! you want to have your revenge now ;
you have waited a long time, but it comes at
last," said Rosalie, whose tongue had grown
active now that her limbs could take more rest.
*you have let M. de Breteuil  M. Louis
grow rich again ; build houses that are
palaces, buy horses, have servants, slaves like
an Eastern prince, and then you want to come
and with your little secret "

*' Well, Madame Rosalie, we are waiting for
that."

*' Be patient. It is a long time ago. I must
think, and I must bring my proofs of the truth
of what I tell you. Every sorceress hasher

enchantments, you know, and I have

mine."

She left the room ; interest in the old story-she
was about to rake up was now rising to
aid the effect of cupidity, and she was growing
almost as eager to tell as her visitors were to
hear. For a few moments after she had gone,
neither the lady nor her companion spoke to
each other. Then Gerald made a step forward
from the fearful pledge of vermilion and indigo
hanging on the wall, and supposed to represent
the sun setting behind mountains, upon which
he had been gazing as intensely as if it had
been a Turner.

*' Shall I wait for you in the coupe, madame;
you will be some time with this lady ?" he
asked, looking at his feet and blushing scarlet.

A little shivering sigh from the lady caused
him involuntarily to look up, and he saw that
her grey eyes were swimming in a mist of
tears, which made her more modest, more
womanly, more worshipful in his eyes than
she had ever been before. In one electric
glance he saw into the woman's passionate
heart, knew what sort of terrible history she

had passed through ; while she read the stingless
sympathy of a chivalrous nature in the
lad's eves.

Neo," she said, very gently. " Stay here.
She can tell nothing you may not know 
nothing but what you had better know."

And he stepped back quietly to his old
position under the gem of art already described,
as Kosalie re-entered. She had in her
hand a small box ornamented with shells, in
the centre of the lid of which was a pincushion
of blue silk of a violet shade. She held the
box in both hands while she talked.

The story is not very long, madame, and
it is for you to judge whether it is of any
value :

Seventeen years ago, a handsome young
Englishman came to Paris with his wife and a
little child. They stayed at a fashionable
hotel, and led a gay life abroad, though, from
what the servants of the place could gather,
they were not always too happy at home.
There were quarrels sometimes between them,
that was well known ; and one day, when
monsieur had to go to the]Opera by himself,

VOL. III. 41

madame stayed at home with what she called
a headache; but the servants, who were less
refined, called it a black eye. Everyone took
the part of madame ; she was so beautiful, had
such sweet manners, and was so good to the
child, who was a little witch whom everybody
worshipped. My brother was a waiter thereat
the time, which will explain a great deal of
what I know. But all this time the bill was
never paid, and if it had not been for the
smiles of the lady and her little one, who were
two English angels, they would all have had
notice to quit before long, for monsieur's temper
was detestable, and his family, of which he
used to speak as if he had been a prince, never
seemed to send him any money. At last this
fine young gentleman began to feel the
pinch of poverty more keenly, and the sharp
eyes which watched them detected that the
lady no longer wore any jewellery when she
went out. Shortly after this was noticed,
there was a great disturbance in the hotel
because one of the gentlemen staying in it
missed some gold and notes from his portmanteau
; a waiter was suspected, but proved

to be innocent, and nothing was ever seen of
the money.

'* This commotion was scarcely forgotten,
when a lady in the hotel had a pair of
diamond earrings and some bracelets stolen
from her dressing case. The Honourable Mrs.
Corrie  that was the young English lady's
name  was ill in her room at the time. When
one of the chambermaids took up to her a cup
of coffee and a biscuit for the child, she saw
lying on the sofa one of the bracelets which
had just been missed.

'* The girl was intelligent, and, guessing the
truth, said :

' Ah, madame, you have dropped one of
your bracelets.'

' ' No,' said the lady. ' It is one my
husband has just given me.'

The chambermaid hurries off with the tray,
and informs the proprietor. A strict look-out
is kept for the return of the Honourable Mr.
Corrie. But he knows better ; he does not
return.

*' Little by little the truth leaks out to the
poor lady  her husband has robbed these

412

strangers and deserted her. Poor thing ! she
was heart-broken, they say ; she Avrote to her
friends in England, and an old gentleman 
her step-father, I believe  came to fetch her
and the child back, and part of the hotel bill
was paid  after a dispute. But the proprietor
was not hard upon them. He saw that they
were victims too.

'' I saw father, and mother, and child once,
when I went to the hotel to visit my brother,
and I have never seen the ladies again. But
when, six years later, I saw the rich and
fashionable M. Breteuil driving in the Champs
Elysees, I recognised him under the beautiful
moustache he had grown ; and when he appeared
at that little hotel where I first had the
honour of meeting you, madame," with a respectful
inclination to Madeline, " I knew him
at once, and I took good care  though our
visitors' luggage was seldom worth ransacking
to lock up the rooms''

'And you never told me!" burst out
Madeline.

The old woman shrugged her shoulders.

'' What good would it have done, madame ?

You learnt your lesson soon enough, and I
kept a valuable secret. That is all'

"And this?" asked Madame de Lancry,
touching the shell box.

Ah ! this contains some fragments of
letters from the Honourable Mr. Corrie to his
wife. They were found in the grate of the
room they used, and it was myself who pasted
them together."

And, very proud of her ingenuity, Rosalie
flourished an old letter, the torn pieces of
which were neatly joined together by thin
strips of gummed paper cut off the edges of a
sheet of postage stamps.

Madeline, with trembling hands, took one
of the letters, and began to read it. She had
only seen the first line, " My darling wife,"
when she was startled by a hoarse gasp from
Herald, who had drawn near to listen to
Rosalie's story. She looked up, and saw that
his eyes were fixed on something which had
for a moment escaped her notice in the agitation
the sight of the handwriting caused her.
It was the crest at the head of the letter : Two
herons, the one standing with wings outstretched

over the prostrate body of the
other. And the motto : " Yaincqueur et
roy."

What does that mean ?' asked Gerald
hoarsely.

The old patched letter fell from Madame de
Lancry's fingers and fluttered to the ground
as Gerald Staunton's abrupt question showed
that he recognised the crest on the paper, and
attached a terrible importance to the discovery.
Rosalie snapped up the fallen paper, and
examined it with new interest, as she saw the
effect the sight of it had upon the young
Englishman. Madame de Lancry laid her
hand upon his arm, and looked with profound
sympathy into his white and quivering
face.

Poor boy !" she said, in a low voice.

He said nothing; he did not seem to hear
her. He was looking with dull eyes at the
birdcage which was hanging in the window,

and appeared quite absorbed in watching the
canary inside as it hopped from perch to perch.
But his forehead was wet, and the muscles of
his mouth were twitching ; and his hand, as
she took it gently in hers, was nerveless and
unresponsive as that of a dead man.

Come, Gerald, don't give way like this,
frightened like a girl by something you don't
understand," continued Madame de Lancry,
in a louder, more stirring voice.

He shuddered from head to foot, as one
might imagine a statue would do if brought
suddenly to painful life ; and moistening his
mouth by an effort as he turned towards her
and looked into her face with haggard eyes,
he said huskily :

'1 do understand."

Then he broke away from her kind detaining
clasp, and picked up his hat, which lie
had allowed to fall, and took from the brim a
scrap of white cotton which it had gathered
from the carpet, and withdrew to the window
with only one distinct feeling  that of thankfulness
that he had just missed making a
fearful "scene." For his blood was leaping

and boiling in his veins. He felt conscious
of the surging of a torrent, the tumult of a
storm, whether in him or around him he
scarcely realized. He felt no distinct sensation
of pain, or horror, or surprise ; no fact remained
clear in his mind. His whole being
was as if uprooted, and the wrench left him
for the time as incapable of anything but
mechanical movement as an automaton.

Madame de Lancry had suffered too much
from violent shocks of the same kind to be
surprised at any effect of a blow like this ;
and she did not, as Rosalie did, mistake his
dead calmness for sang froid and marvel at
the stolidity of Englishmen, which enabled
them to recover from a. deadly blow to their
emotions more quickly than a Frenchman
from a twinge of toothache.

And yet it must have been something
that would have hit another man hard to
make him go white like that V' Kosalie
reflected, as she watched the young fellow
assist Madame de Lancry into the coupe and
weighed in her hand affectionately the money
she had received from the lady for her long-kept

secret, and for the letters which confirmed
part of it.

Gerald was hard hit. He sat beside
Madame de Lancry doing the drive back into
Paris very silently, and almost without a
movement. A dull pain at his heart, one
awful thought in his head, had succeeded to
the lethargy into which horror had cast him.
His companion looked at him from time to
time ; but, knowing that the hour for advice
or consolation was not yet come, she remained
so sympathetically quiet and still that the
young man felt that he was alone, yet that
in his grief, deep as it was, he was not
lonely.

As they drew near to the boulevards again,
she touched his shoulder gently :

Tell the cocher to drive to St. Germains,"
she said simply.

Gerald obeyed ; but as he drew in his head
after giving the order, he asked vacantly :

You will put me down, madame, won't
you ? I have to catch the train  at
least "

He stopped, and the cold white beads stood

again on his forehead. Madame de Lancry
looked at him inquiringly.

Where do you want to go to ?"

God knows !"

The tears were gathering in his eyes as this
answer burst from him ; but he forced them
back, and, not daring to trust himself to
speak again for the present, allowed himself
to be driven along the Champs Elysees, the
Avenue Ulrich, and into the Bois, without
protest, and apparently without noticing where
he was going. And still madame left him
alone, leaning back with closed eyes, and with
an expression of face so fixed and immovable
that it might have been mistaken for a look
of perfect serenity.

By the time they had left the Bois, Gerald
had recovered sufficiently from the first
stunned sensation which followed the shock
to turn to his companion, and ask her where
she was taking him.

Taking you ? You think I have some
special object in keeping you with me ?"

' I am sure of it. You do nothing by
chance in this affair."

'' I am going with you  taking you to St.
Germains."

What for, madame ?"

'' To tell you an old story."

A story ! Another story ! I think I
have heard enough for one day''

I want to know the meaning you gave to
Rosalie's long-winded revelations. Are you
ready to tell me now ?"

I will tell you whatever you please ;
though, since it was your constant hints and
warnings that gave me the key to Rosalie's
story, I don't think there is much that I have
to explain to you."

Madame de Lancry admired the self-control
Which enabled the young man to speak with
his usual brusque straightforwardness ; for
she could see he was still suffering deeply,
and was rather puzzled by the long duration
of the effect of the shock.

What did the sight of the crest on the
paper tell you ?"

Gerald shuddered. He answered huskily,
after a short pause :

I recognised it as the same crest I have

seen on the signet-stone. I already knew
that the signet-stone belonged, not as I once
thought, to Mr. Beresford, but to the thief,
whom I now know to be M. de Breteuil.
The sight of the letter with the crest suddenly
reminded me that I had seen a sheet of the
same paper before ; it was an old letter from
her mother which Peggy once showed me.
I did not notice the crest at the time ; I never
should have remembered it, but for seeing
old letter on the same sort of paper today.
It showed me in a moment what it all
meant  your hints ; the story of the deserted
mother and the little girl ; Mr. Beresford's
want of affection for Peggy. It was all
detached before, and disjointed, and confusing ;
but then I knew "

Well, you knew  what ?" asked Madame
de Breteuil eagerly.

He gave her an uneasy look of reproach
for her persistency.

'' I knew that Peggy was not Mr. Beresford' s
daughter at all ; and that this scoundrel De
Breteuil, the man who murdered my father,
whom I have been hunting down in the

dark for you like a bloodhound, by scent
and not by sight, is the father of my own
wife."

Madame de Lancry started violently, and
looked at him for a few moments as if resolved
not to believe that she had heard him rightly.
But the steadfast gaze he gave her in return,
full of unutterable agony, but with a man's
determination even in the wild stare of his
eyes, made it impossible to doubt this.

You have married that girl !" said she, ina
broken whisper.

Yes ; I married her yesterday morning."

'' Yesterday morning? In France? Without
her father's consent ?" cried Madame de
Lancry eagerly. " Then it is invalid, and
the marriage "

Is perfectly binding, madame," broke in
Gerald gravely. " It took place in England
after due publication of the banns, between
two people both of age. Peggy is my wife,
for which I still say, ' Thank God !' "

"Oh, well, if you are satisfied with the
connection, I have no more to say, except
that it is astonishing' that the news of her

father's little irregularities affected you so
much. No doubt his speculation on the purses
of his neighbours will enable him to endow
his daughter with a nice little fortune. I
congratulate you."

Gerald said nothing to this ; he was far too
seriously troubled to be moved by any such
little carping outburst. The lady seemed
rather irritated by his silence.

Well !" said she sharply.

"It is not worthy of you, madame, to talk
like that' he answered, at last. '' What has
that 25001" child ever done that she should be
deserted by her husband at the very time
when she finds out that her father is a
villain ? I did wrong in marrying her without
the consent of the man whom I supposed
to be her father  and I am punished. But
she is blameless as a child. She has had a
hard life already  at least she shan't suffer
any more through me."

He spoke very slowly, \ery gravely, but
With none of the tenderness which had
hitherto thrilled his voice and softened his
face at the mention of Peggy.

"You love her still then !" said Madame
<le Breteuil, in a low, astonished voice.

God help me  no !" burst out the young
husband, in passionate misery. " The very
thought of seeing again her poor little pale
face makes me shiver ; for I know that when
I next meet her, I shall see in her features
what I saw in them once before  the likeness
to the face I saw in the darkness on the night
Mr. Shaw was murdered."

You saw it once before, you say ?"

Yes. I thought it was a horrible fancy.
Now I shall never be able to look at her
without remembering that it is a ghastly
reality."

What will you do ?"

I must take her away  back to England,
I. think. I know I can get employment thereby
applying to my father's friends. I am so
afraid she may hear something, unless I take
her away at once. This selfish old Beresford
must certainly be in league with De Breteuil,
since he passed the scoundrel's daughter off
as his own. It will be easy, I expect, to
frighten him into allowing me to take the girl

away, by letting him see how much I
know."

Then you would give up all thoughts of
hunting down De Breteuil ?"

Madame, what can I do ?"

She shrugged her shoulders, and said no
more ; but she looked more determined than
ever. Neither spoke again until they were
driving slowly up the steep hill into St.
Germains, underneath the iron bars from
which the little oil lamps swung in the days
of the Terror.

'' Tell him to drive to the Pavilion Henri
Quatre," said she.

It was not yet four o'clock, and although it
was only April, the sun was strong, and the
white hotel looked as glaringly clean and
bright as on the afternoon when Madeline had
paid her last memorable visit there. She left
Gerald to follow her as she walked quickly past
the bowing proprietor into the large room where
she and Louis de Breteuil and Mr. Staunton
had dined together. She went straight up to
the table where they had sat, and looked down
upon the fancifully-cut yew-trees in the old-vol.

III. 42

fashioned garden at the foot of the hill underneath.
As she looked out, she forgot the
object she had had in coming, the companion
she had brought with her, the long years
which had passed since the ghastly events
which followed the merry little dinner set
their seal upon her life. A respectful cough
within a couple of yards of her momentarily
deaf ears recalled her attention. Turning
suddenly, she saw, standing reverently before
her beside the table, a smiling, pompous,
urbane creature, whose long-forgotten face
flashed back into her memory connected with
a score of trifling incidents of that fatal evening.
She started with an exclamation that
was almost a stifled scream.

Madame remembers me," said the old
head waiter, more urbane than ever. "It is
eleven years since I saw madame here, though,
indeed, I can scarcely believe it, when I see
madame just as I saw her then."

'' You remember me !" cried the lady
abruptly, flushing as she caught sight of
Gerald, as if a new and bright thought had
struck her ; and she beckoned the young

Englishman nearer with an imperative gesture.
Do you remember also my companions ?"

Perfectly, madame. The one was a
gentleman whom I have often since had the
honour of attending here, though I did not
then know who he was  the illustrious millionaire,
M. de Breteuil."

Gerald started and drew nearer.

"Well, well, and the other, the other?"
said madame de Lancry impatiently.

The other, madame, I remember perfectly
also. I flatter myself that, like princes, I
never forget a face. The second gentleman
who had the honour to accompany madame
was an Englishman, a tall handsome gentleman,
of middle age, with a short greyish beard,
and eyes  like monsieur there," finished the
man, whose attention had been called to
Gerald by the visible effect these words of
description had upon him.

Bring some coffee and some biscuits,"
said Madeline, to get rid of the man.

And as he left the room she went up to
Gerald, who had sunk down upon a chair,
with his head on his hands.

422

You see now why I brought you here,"
said she in a voice so determined that it
sounded hard. " It was here, on the evening
this man remembers, that Louis de Breteuil
found out that your father carried property of
value with him on his way to Turin. We
dined at this table ; your father sat where you
are sitting now, I sat here, De Breteuil sat
there, talking to us, amusing us : me, the
woman whose life he ruined ; your father,
whose life he took, whose good name he
destroyed. For eleven years this man has led
the most brilliant of lives, committed other
crimes, perhaps forgotten those early ones ; he
is rich, honoured as honour goes, and, from
what I know of his nature, probably happy.
Providence knows best, perhaps you will say ;
Providence will end his career in Providence's
own good time, and if the villain dies quietly
and peacefully like a good man, why. Providence
must look to that and point the moral
its own way. You are a man and can reason ;
and if your blood is tamer than that of most
men of your age, why, all the better for you.
But / am only a woman ; I cannot school

myself to take things as I ought. I find the
means of dealing justice within my reach ; I
only want another arm to help me deal the
blow. But then I am alive, and justice and
revenge burn in my blood, and cry aloud to
be fed, to be satisfied ; the dead are cold and
can cry for nothing : justice and revenge are
not for them."

Gerald sprang up with flushed and quivering
face as her last slow words rang like a
knell in his ears.

Madame, madame, have mercy ; your
words cut like knives," he said with hissing
breath. ''I will help you to the end, come
what may."

As usual, Madame de Lancry did not waste
her efforts. From the weird prophetess,
stinging the young man into ardour equal to
her own, she suddenly dropped into the bored
Parisienne as the waiter bustled into the room
with the coffee. Ten minutes later, they were
driving back into Paris as quickly as the tired
horse could drag them. The lady entered into
no further parley on the exciting subject
which filled their minds. She took it for

granted that Gerald had pledged himself to beat
her commands ; but when she gave the
driver the direction to go to M. de Breteuil's
house in the Avenue Friedland, the young
fellow was startled by the swiftness of her
action.

You are not going to see him now ?"
he hazarded.

No ; I know he is away at the races at
Auteurs. But I Lavish to see this Babette. If
she can be bought, which is, from what you
have told me, very probable, it will simplify
the matter."

'' Do you wish me to go in with you,
madame ?"

No. I will tell you plainly what the
work is I want you to do. I will start the
fox, and I want you to run him to earth."

What do you mean, madame ?" asked
Gerald, who was not used to having his instructions
in metaphor.

"When my persecutions force De Breteuil
out of his Paris home, as they will do, you
must be on the watch, and you must follow
him to whatever place he makes for, if it is a

thousand miles away. But it will not be sofar."


When do you expect De Breteuil to go ?"

"I cannot tell you yet. But if I am successful
with this Babette, I shall hear from her
when he starts, and I Avill put you at once
on the track."

Ashen they had arrived within a few doors
of the great white mansion, they got out at
Madame de Lancry's suggestion, dismissed the
coupe, and engaged a passing sacre.

You had better wait here for me in this,"
said she. " I don't think I shall keep you
long waiting, and I may have something to
tell you when I come out."

She walked alone towards the house, and
Gerald got into the fiacre, and leant his head
back to think. To guess, to imagine, to
regret, to be miserable, remorseful, impatient ;
all this was easy, but to form clear thoughts
seemed impossible. To track down his father's
murderer, as he had promised ; to guard his
unhappy wife from the knowledge that she
was the wretch's daughter ; these two apparently
hopelessly incompatible tasks he was

bound to strain every nerve to fulfil. He
knew that, and realized the difficulty of it.

But the one idea which would cross and
recross his mind at every point of the complication
was, what share had Mr. Beresford had
in all this villainy ? and what steps would
he take when he learnt that it was all discovered
?

I think he is the most mysterious figure
in the whole business," he reflected.

At that moment the victoria he had admired
so much the evening before dashed past,
and drove through the porte-cohere of M. de
Breteuil's house. A gentleman was in it
alone, but the carriage passed out of sight too
quickly for Gerald to see him clearly. The
young fellow grew hot at the thought that it
was probably the man whom they were tracking
down.

If she were to meet him !" was the appalling
suggestion which flashed through his
mind.

Ix spite of lier strength of mind, of the eleven
years during which the pangs both of jealousy
and of humiliation had presumably had time
to cool, Madame de Lancry felt, as she asked
if Madame de Breteuil was at home, the old
sting of bitter mortification prick her for a
moment almost as keenly as ever.

"Madame de Breteuil!" The name she
herself had borne during that short fever of
wild and passionate happiness which had
ended abruptly as death. Every step, as she
followed the silent servant upstairs through
the painted hall and the long corridor, through
the open windows of which came sweet perfumes
and sounds of rippling fountains from
the conservatory, recalled the beautiful home

wliicli had been paradise to her, with Louis
for a god. In the drawing-room, his fantastic
taste was still more apparent  his caprice of
declining to have anything about him the
counterpart of which he could see in any other
house. A fashion set by anyone else he would
not follow. Chairs, couches, and ottomans
were twice as large as those in other Paris
mansions, and the seats were twice as low
Plush and satin being fashionable, his furniture
was covered with canvas, thickly embroidered
with silk and chenille and gold
Since salon mantelpieces are usually of marble
his were of carved oak. No vase, no statue
no cabinet, however dark the corner in which
it stood, had its counterpart in any other house
in Paris. However inadvertently Madame de
Lancry might have entered this room, she
would have known that it had been furnished
under the governing eye of Louis de Breteuil.
The servant was not sure whether Madame
de Breteuil was at home to-day. He left
madame in the salon and went to inquire.
She herself had no doubt that the gamekeeper's
daughter would see her.

Poor creature !" she said to herself. " Left
alone by Louis, probably after a severe scolding,
with no resources but making herself ill
with bonbons, and trying on dresses and
bonnets which she spoils in the act, to hear
that a lady wishes to see her will be a mad
excitement for her. I shall have to wait while
she makes herself look ridiculous to impress
me."

Resigned to this, Madame de Lancry roamed
through the two rooms which Gerald had explored,
and peeped into another at the opposite
end to Babette's boudoir. This was a fair-sized
room, which looked small after the other
two. The 2ortiere before the door was drawn
aside, and the door was open only just far
enough for Madeline to see that the room
looked particularly luxurious and inviting.

Louis' own room," she thought at once,
and put her head round the door. " Study,
or smoking-room, or whatever he calls it.
Very nice indeed."

She glanced back through the larger rooms ;
no one was in them yet. As there was every
reason why she should make herself well

acquainted with the geography of the place,
she slipped quickly into the little room, and
looked about her. High windows on her left
hand, overlooking the courtyard ; the rest of
the walls hung with tapestry  not ancient,
time-worn, and dull-coloured, but modern,
rich tinted, and in all its first beauty of
texture and colouring. There were no seats
but cushions ; no doors to be seen. But
Madeline had not forgotten De Breteuil's
was's, and she inspected every corner with
keen eyes, quite prepared to meet another
pair equally keen peering out at her from
some unsuspicious-looking fold of the dark
hangings. In a few moments, grown bolder,
she walked round by the walls, passed her
hand over the tapestry, and was rewarded by
finding that, at a point opposite to the door
by which she had come in, a double thickness
of the hangings concealed a very neatly
introduced door, distinguished from the next
panel in the wall only by a tiny keyhole.
The door was fastened. By an ingenious
arrangement, the rings from which the overhanging
tapestry was suspended rattled so

loudly when the folds Averse lifted as to warn
anyone who might be on the other side of the
door of an intruder's approach. She laughed
harshly as she let the tapestry fall from her
hand.

The holy of holies !" she said to herself
mockingly. " Louis' private apartments, with
a little convenient staircase used only by himself
 and one other person."

She looked straight in front of her at the
concealing curtain as shrewdly as if her eyes
actually saw what she at haphazard described.
Then she turned slowly, and her glance fell
upon a large half-length portrait of Louis, ina
massive frame of carved bog-oak and silver,
which stood by itself on a low table at one
side of the room. The sight fascinated her.
As she looked she drew nearer, until she came
so close to the picture that she had to stoop to
see it well, and from stooping she fell in a few
moments down on her knees and remained,
with her head supported by her two hands,
gazing into the hard, smiling face of the
portrait with the intensity of a devotee at a
shrine.

Worked up by the object of her visit to a
state of great excitement, she had suddenly
taken the fancy, as this picture caught her
eye, to try to recall the old feelings, to kindle
the old fire, to look on the portrait as she
would have done eleven years ago. If time
and fickleness had effaced Louis from her
heart and mind, this would have been impossible.
But to pass from a tempest of hatred
into a vivid remembrance of a tempest of
equally violent fondness was comparatively
easy ; and when at last a heavy step behind
her roused Madeline, it was natural for the
newcomer to mistake her attitude of homage
to the past for that of present devotion.

Madame de Lancry turned as she still knelt,
took in at a glance the chief details of the
handsome, rustic face and figure in their inappropriate
setting of Parisian finery, and
rose very composedly, with a feeling of deep
contempt for this beautiful person, and a conviction
that she would be easy enough to
manage. But she was prepared for an outburst
of jealousy ; so she bowed to Babette,
who gave her an awkward courtesy in return,

and waited in a dignified manner to hear what
the probably infuriated young person would
have to say.

But the young person had nothing to say.
She simply stared at the tall lady with lovely,
vacant eyes, as a cow looks at one over a
hedge, uncertain whether to go on munching,
or to retire to a safer distance from that
capricious and surprising thing  a human
being ; and then, as Madame de Lancry gave
no sign of her intentions, Babette raised her
left hand and arm, laden with rings and
bracelets, to her pretty fair head, and naively
scratched it.

In truth, the poor creature was utterly
puzzled. Instinct told her that she was in
presence of her superior, and she looked to
that superior to take the initiative. Getting
no help from her visitor, Babette grew very
red, and shuffling about from one foot to the
other under her handsome dress, she said at
last, jerking her head in the direction of the
photograph :

You know him ?"

Yes," said Madeline, '' I know him."

less.

And you ain't afraid  if you know him 
to come here into his rooms without permission
?"

No. Are you ?"

' Mon Dieu, yes ! I only dare to come here
when I know he is a long way out of the way.
Then I  I amuse myself."

Her wavering' glance round the room sufficiently
indicated that her amusement consisted
in " rummaging." She looked again at the
lady in black, sideways, shyly, but with
evident admiration. Madame de Lancry
raised her veil and smiled at her. The
simple creature grew suddenly confident, like
a child.

' Do you like him ?" she asked in a rough
whisper, coming nearer.

Not very much."

Well, and no more don't I."

She drew near, confidentially.

'' I can't bear him  that I can't ; and the
things I have to eat and the clothes I have
to wear don't make up for it neither. And I
tell you what it is, if I knew how, I'd runaway."


*' Would you? Where do you want  where
would you go ?"

"I'd go right back home to 'Les Bout
the place where I used to live, near
Calais. This sort of life don't agree with
me."

No moral scruples of any kind seemed to
trouble her ; she was simply an animal who
preferred liberty to confinement.

It's so dull," said she, yawning widely.
There's no creatures to feed, and no cows to
milk, no washing, no garden to see to, no
market to take the things to when they've
growed up all fresh and nice." (At the mention
of these simple pleasures her eyes grew
bright and her voice unsteady.) " And when
I'm dull, he takes me to the opera. Opera!
Who cares for the opera ?"  with strong contempt.
" And he was angry when I laughed
at all those girls capering about. All very
fine for those who like it. But I don't ; I
hate the life and him too."

Well, I dislike him quite as much as you
can do. And if you will help me to find out
something I want to know about him, I

VOL. III. 43

promise to get you free to go back to your
country home."

Babette looked at her fearfully and incredulously.
The unknown lady was promising too
much.

What do you want to know ?" she asked
slowly.

' Where M. de Breteuil keeps his papers."

"Ah!"

The tone with which she uttered this simple
exclamation betrayed that she was in a position
to give the required information. Madame de
Lancry glanced at the hangings which concealed
the locked door. Involuntarily Babette
nodded.

You have the key ? Or at least you
know where it is ?"

'' I'm afraid," said the peasant woman
evasively, glancing round her with growing-uneasiness.
'' Besides, how am I to know
you will keep your promise ?"

*' If I once get hold of De Breteuil's papers
I can compel him to leave Paris."

But it's me that wants to leave Paris, not
him!"

'' When he is gone you can do as you like ;
is not that so ? And I will take care you are
safe. Come, can't you trust me ? I'm sure
you know you can."

Her manner, which she knew how to make
winning, Alas irresistible to the poor creature
in her unsympathetic surroundings. Babette
gave one more frightened glance, through the
door by which she had entered, into the two
larger rooms ; then walked to the fireplace, put
her hand into the back of the clock, and drew
out a tiny key, which she hastily thrust into
the lock of the concealed door. It opened at
once ; all that Madame de Lancry could see at
first was that the apartment, or passage, or
whatever it might be to which it led, was dark.
Babette suddenly laid a strong hand upon her
arm  a new difficulty had occurred to her.

But," she said in a loud, excited whisper
close to the lady's ear, " if I go back to my
father's cottage, M. de Breteuil will come
there after me. For my father has a charge
for him "

- What claire ?"

But Babette looked frightened.

432

I must not tell you. It would bring the
police on to us if it were known "

Madame de L an cry was impatient.

Trust to me. The police will have enough
evidence without interfering with you."

With more physical strength than the
sturdily-built country girl would have given
her credit for, she wrenched herself away from
Babette's detaining hands, and went cautiously
through the door into the darkness beyond.
As her eyes grew accustomed to the change
from the bright sunset light in the room she
had left, Madame de Lancry found that she
was in a room so small that it was scarcely
more than a large cupboard, very dimly lighted
by a little window high up on the right-hand
side, through which a few feeble rays came
from the interior, not the exterior, of the
house.

It was apparently a sort of lumber-room and
wardrobe for old clothes, and it had a close
and musty smell. Well-used portmanteaus
and trunks filled most of the space of the floor,
and projected from a shelf which ran high up
round the walls ; under this shelf was a row

of pegs, from which hung a couple of old
travelling-cloaks, a shooting-jacket and three
or four men's hats and caps. Madame de
Breteuil knew very well that a gentleman of
De Breteuil's position and tastes does not keep
old hats and coats for nothing. She therefore
leaned across a couple of tall boxes, and lifted
one of the cloaks away from the wall. Behind
it her sharp eyes detected another keyhole, and
retreating' to the door through which she had
entered, and through which Babette was peering
with eager but frightened curiosity, she
withdrew the little key and tried it in the
inner door. That also opened, and Madame
de L an cry went through the narrow passage
beyond far enough to find that it led to a
downward staircase. But this discovery was
too much for Babette; after uttering piteous
remonstrances to the lady against her dangerous
daring;. the frightened creature drew back from
the doorway and disappeared.

Madame de Lancry returned to the lumber-room,
and withdrew the little key from the
door, which she left ajar. She had no time to
lose in search of Babette, to try to extract more

information on the subject of the place where
De Breteuil kept his papers ; she did not know
how soon he might return, and she was possessed
by a dogged resolution not to leave the
house until she had obtained enough evidence
against him to be able to go to the police
and set them on the track of the fashionable
millionnaire. So she boldly set to work to
make havoc among the trunks, turning them
over with the acute conviction that somewhere
among the least accessible of them she would
find what she wanted.

It was with a great rush of blood to her
head and a violent throbbing at her heart that,
at last, in a corner below the small window
and underneath an English Gladstone bao\ she
found a leather hat-box heavier than the rest.
It was not locked, though the key was in it;
she raised the lid, and, with a smothered cry
of disappointment, found that it was crammed
with old newspapers and guide-books. Just
as she was on the point of shutting it again, she
saw that a hasty touch of her impatient fingers
had dislodged some of the papers, exposing to
view a small, dark object underneath. She

felt it, raised it, and found that it was a revolver.
This discovery made her hunt further :
in another moment she knead that she had
found Avhat she sought. Straining her eyes in
the gloom to which they had now become
accustomed, she drew out a handful of
papers which a few moments' scrutiny showed
her to be securities of various kinds, banknotes,
the numbers of which she guessed to be
stopped, and other papers of the same kind,
which De Breteuil,with characteristic audacity,
kept by him either on the chance of their
proving valuable, or out of the recklessness
born of impunity.

Madame de Lancry uttered a short laugh
of triumph at her own sagacity. Knowing
from what sources De Breteuil obtained the
greater part of his wealth, she had felt certain
that he must have in his possession some
dangerous property of this kind, which, used
by an enemy, must inevitably ruin him.
She did not scruple to thrust the first-fruits of
her search pell-mell into her pockets, and her
white hands, from which she had long since
pulled off her gloves, were diving again into

the box in an eager search for more, when a
heavy tread behind her from the door which
led into the drawing-rooms caused her to
pause, and to turn round with another exulting
laugh.

'Babette! Babette! he is in my power ! he
is a dead man !" she cried, as she sat back and
turned round with excitement. But the laugh
at the end of her words died away suddenly
on her lips. It was not Babette. Glaring at
her out of the darkness with livid face and
burning eyes, his blue lips shaking with
diabolical anger, and his white teeth shining
like those of a beast of prey, was Louis de
Breteuil. Branded with every foulest crime,
bearing on his savage and distorted face the
impress of every passion that can harden and
degrade, the sight of Avhat he had become fora
moment froze the blood of the woman
who had once adored him. The next moment
she was glancing furtively to left and right,
making ready for a struggle of muscle or
of wits.

' What are you doing here ?" he asked
abruptly.

She did not answer.

What are you doing here, Babetfce, I say?"
he repeated in a louder voice.

Madame de Lancry's heart leapt up with a
sudden, savage suggestion of her passionate
revenge. He had not recognised her voice :
kneeling there in the gloom, her tall figure
passed for the equally massive form of Babette.
Stealthily in the dimness she felt for the
revolver ; she did not know whether it was
loaded, and if she had known that it was, she
could not have fired it off ; but it would
serve lier purpose. Then she bent her head
upon her hands and affected to sob. It was
not difficult acting, for she was really shaking
from head to foot, and her breath was coming
in short gasps. De Breteuil stepped over some
of the lumber and shook her shoulder roughly.

'' You stupid, prying fool, get up," said he
brutally. " What crack-brained craze have
you got hold of now ? Do you want to get
sent back to your pigs and your parents ? I
took you away because I thought you were a
fool, but upon my soul I begin to think you
are something worse."

He ended with another and rougher shake ;
a sudden doubt crossed his mind as Madame
de Lancry, sick dth unutterable horror at his
touch, still held her head down. He paused
a second, bending over her ] then he hissed
into her ear :

Who the d 1 are you ?"

She turned and looked up at him.

Don't you know me ?"

He shrank back with an awful curse, and,
Cjuick as thought, Madeline sprang to her feet
and pointed the revolver straight at his head.
It would probably not have shot him, even if
her shaking hand had discharged it, but it
looked menacing; enough in the hands of the
excited woman. De Breteuil shrank back,
cowed.

Don't you know me ?" repeated Madeline.
Don't you know the woman whom you
betrayed, whom you deserted, on whose money
you lived, whose life you ruined ? Perhaps
I can recall myself to your mind. Do you
remember how, having committed a murder and
taken my own husband for an accomplice, you
came to me and asked me to let bygones be

bygones, and to come with you to a restaurant
and dine and drink champagne ; and how I
unaccountably turned sulky and refused ?
Surely you must remember that ! I congratulated
you on your partner, and promised
that you would have luck, as you have done.
And I prophesied one other thing : that some
day you would make a little slip, which I
should make use of to track you doAvn. Now
that has come true, and I warn you, clever
rogues as you both are, your last resource will
be as powerless to save you from man's justice
as it is to save you now from a woman's
revenge."

As she poured out her hot words, De
Breteuil remained in the corner of the room,
abject and cowering, daunted by her sudden
attack. But the moment that she, revolver in
hand, made for the door, he started forward,
and drew it towards him ; it shut with a
spring.

Still she came forward. As she reached
the middle of the tiny room, he sprang at her,
with mad eyes, and a hissing, hungry sound
between his teeth, as if he Avould tear her to

pieces. Flinging down the revolver, she
dashed like the wind through the opposite
door leading to the staircase, and pulled it
towards her. To her intense relief, that closed
with a spring also, and she heard the sound of
a heavy blow upon the solid wood as she flew
down the staircase. She was at the bottom
in a few moments, groping her way along a
narrow passage. She could not see, but she
was suddenly brought to a standstill by
finding that she had come to the end. She
felt the wall in front of her, straining her ears
in fear of footsteps behind, until her fingers
touched a handle, which she turned in a fever
of hope which another moment fulfilled. She
was out in the street at the back of the house ;
hastily closing the door in the wall through
which she had escaped, Madeline, recollecting
by an effort where she was, staggered along,
giddy and trembling, towards the turning
which would lead her to where she had left
Gerald in the fiacre.

As Madame de Lancry drew near to the Jiac7r,
Gerald, who was on the watch, jumped out,
hurried towards her, and gave her his
arm.

There was no need to ask whether she had
met De Breteuil : the Aver and tear of the
exciting half-hour she had passed had made,
for the time, ten years' havoc in the great
beauty she still possessed. The hand she put
through the young man's arm was weak and
filtering as that of an infirm old Avoman,
and her footsteps tottered still as he led her
gently to the fiacre and helped her in.

"Back to the hotel, madame ?" he asked
softly.

No. AVait a moment," said she, as she

took her scent-bottle from the seat beside her,
sprinkled a handkerchief with eau-de-cologne,
and held it to her drawn, pale face. The
simple remedy did her less good than the
short rest and reflection which the application
of it gave her time for. In a very few seconds
she raised her head again and spoke quite composedly.
" I have done all that I can do now,"
she said, with anxious gravity more human
than her previous fierce determination ; "tomorrow
I shall go to the ponce, and I think
the evidence I can place in their hands is
strong enough to procure him," a short gasp
interrupted her, " a domiciliary visit. But he
knows this, or he will know it within a few
minutes, and he has one last resource, which
he will almost certainly use. I want your
help to defeat him here."

All right," said Gerald hoarsely.

At the back of his house there is a private
door ; I will point it out to you. I want you
to remain on the watch, no matter how long,
until it opens, and some one comes out. You
must follow that person, the first who comes
out, whoever it may be, and however far that

person may go, until  well, until you find
you are at fault. Then, stay wherever you
lose sight of that person, and communicate at
once with me."

By letter ?" asked Gerald.

No, by telegram. Say whatever you like,
it does not matter what. I shall understand
that the address you give is the place where
you lost sight of him."

But supposing I don't lose sight of him,"
suggested the young fellow, rather nettled by
the supposed slight cast upon his sagacity.

We need not consider that possibility,"
she answered calmly.

But, Madame de Lancry, of course I will
do this if you insist, but isn't it the sort
of work for a detective rather than for me ?"

There is no time to get a detective to doit.
Even while we are speaking, De Breteuil
may have got away."

Well, then, he must get as far as he
pleases. I'm not a bloodhound."

For all answer to this outburst, Madame
de Lancry got out of the Fiacre, took Gerald's
arm again, led him into the back street from

which, she had just come, and posted to the
door she had spoken about.

If you stand up here, in the entrance
to this court, you can watch without being
seen," said she. *' When the person you have
to follow comes out, you can use your own
discretion as to the best way of remaining
unseen during your pursuit."

But, madame, I would rather not."

If you like, you may, at the end of your
journey, keep the knowledge you will have
gained to yourself I am not fit to undertake
this task myself, Gerald ; but if you will not,
I must. I have braved him once to-day ; I can
do so again."

"No, madame, I will go," said Gerald,
conquered again by the woman's irresistible
will. " Of course I cannot allow you to
expose yourself to this man's brutality. But
if I 2ro, at all risks I must meet him."

Madame de Lancry laughed. " Bj all
means meet him  if you can." And without
another word she left him, and walked quickly
away. Left to himself, the excitement of the
situation seized upon Gerald, and grew so

strong, that within ten minutes he was watching
the little door Madame de Lancry had
pointed out with tiger-like eagerness scarcely
less intense than her own. He said to himself,
nevertheless, that he was wasting his
energies, as De Breteuil would certainly have
preparations to make for his departure, even
if he did go, which would occupy some hours.
He had scarcely come to this conclusion,
however, and allowed his eyes to wander for a
moment down the street in the direction of
the turning by which Madame de Lancry had
disappeared, when his attention was recalled
by the sight of the little white door in the
wall opening slowly ; a man in an old cloak
and hat, holding in his hand a common thick
walking-stick, and having the appearance of
a seedy music-teacher or drawing-master, came
quietly out, and after stopping a moment
at the end of the house-wall to take from his
pocket a pair of worsted gloves and put them
on, sauntered along the street at a meditative
pace, using his stick to walk by, and looking
up in the air at the sky above him with all the
appearance of abstraction common to artists
VOL. III. 44

of a low rank with more ambition than
talent.

Gerald stared after him in bewilderment.
Madame de Lancry's calculations had resulted
in a most grave mistake : she had told him to
follow the first person who should come outby
the door in the wall ; here he was, but
obviously he was not the person intended.
The young Englishman had not been able to
catch sight of his face, but his gait, his dress,
his manner, all forbade him to suppose that
this seedy, sauntering gentleman could be the
hard, cruel, yet impetuous and dashing Louis
de Breteuil. And yet this obscure-looking
person seemed, now that he had left the
millionnaire's house some hundred yards behind,
to be getting over the ground at a very good
pace ; and, again, Madame de L an cry's directions,
whether mistaken or not, had been very
clear. After some hesitation, seeing that the
stranger was rapidly approaching a point
where he would disappear from sight altogether,
Gerald stepped out into the road, and, casting
an occasional look behind him in the direction
of the white door in the wall, set off on

the track of the "seedy-looking man. He was
still undecided as to whether he had not
started on a wild-goose chase, until, the man
in the cloak having got into a fiacre and
Gerald having got into another, telling the
driver to follow the first one, the young
Englishman found himself in a short time at
the Gare du Nord. He jumped out, paid the
driver, and kept the man in the cloak in sight,
trying hard to catch a glimpse of his features
as he did so.

But it was dark by this time, and he did
not dare to get near enough to risk being
recognised if this seedy-looking person should
indeed prove to be, as he was forced to begin
to believe, the criminal whom Madame de
Lancry was hunting down. In confirmation
of this belief, the shabby-looking man took a
first-class ticket, and Gerald, who found that
even the third-class fare left his own fortune
at the low ebb of nine sous and a postage
stamp, carefully watched the stranger take his
seat before looking out for a place for himself
in a less comfortable compartment. At each
of the stopping-places on the way to Calais,

442

Gerald paraded the platform and kept a careful
eye on the soft wide-brimmed professorial
hat, which was all he could see, even on
tiptoe, of the mysterious owner of the long
cloak. The young fellow could not help
thinking that the clever and careful way in
which this man kept his face from view without
exciting attention from anyone but himself
was a suspicious circumstance ; and he was a
good deal troubled by consideration of the
difficulty he should be in if, as he could not
doubt, this man should cross to England that
night. He made up his mind to apply to the
proprietor of the Hotel de la Gare, who knew
him well, for a couple of twenty franc pieces
with which to continue his journey, and
having settled this matter, his thoughts
returned to the torturing consideration of the
horrible position in which he stood, married
to the daughter of his father's murderer, and
eno'ao-ed in brinoin his own father-in-law to
justice.

He would not do it ; he would take advantage
of the promise Madame de Lancry had
herself made, not to force him into disclosing

the hiding-place of the man he was following.
Villain as De Breteuil was, dead as the poor
lad believed his affection for his young wife
to be, his heart and mind revolted from the
hideous task of making the woman who now
bore his name a felon's child. Still, if only
for the satisfaction of that curiosity respecting
the mysterious person he was following which
was rapidly becoming a passion, he must and
would track him to his hiding-place ; at least,
this would delay the terrible ordeal of returning
to the poor girl who loved him, and whom
he now shuddered at the thought of meeting.


So, when the train reached Calais, Gerald
got out quickly, and, standing in the crowd
on the platform, watched the slow descent
from his compartment of the man with the
cloak. A porter touched his hat respectfully,
and accompanied the mysterious person along
the platform with the simple words : " Voiture,
monsieur ?" as if he knew him. Gerald followed
them, watched the gentleman get into a Lacey
and in amazement heard the porter give the
direction : " Aux Bouleaux !"

In a state of the strongest excitement and
surprise, Gerald started on foot in the same
direction. " Les Bouleaux " was the last
place in the world he wished to visit, but
to leave this mystery unfathomed was impossible.
He could no longer doubt that
he was following De Breteuil. AVould the
cautious Mr. Beresford go so far as to give
shelter to this thief and murderer, threatened
as he now was with discovery ? Would the latter
claim Peggy as his daughter, or should he,
Gerald, be able to keep from her the dreadful
fact of her parentage ? At least he could try;
he could confess to Mr. Beresford how much he
knew, and by the power of his knowledge
induce that cautious gentleman still to keep
up the unexplained fiction that his accomplice's
child was his own.

As the fiacre disappeared in the darkness
before him, rattling along through the midnight
silence of the old town, Gerald quickened
his pace over the rough stones, and passed
over the hollow-sounding wooden drawbridge
in time to see the fiacre turn to the left,
on the road to ' Les Bouleaux," just at the

point where the carriole had turned over
on the night of Mr. Shaw's murder. He
shuddered at the remembrance, and felt sick
with horror of the past, apprehension for the
future, as he found himself alone on the
straight sandy road, with the grey cloudy sky
above him, and nothing in view but the clumps
of birch and poplar trees, close to one of which
he had heard Mr. Shaw's last cry. He could
not bear either sight or memory ; and as he
came near to the scene of the attack  in
the gloom between the trees which grew high
at this spot, and whose branches, no longer
leafless, cast the road into deep shadow, he
fancied he saw again the carriole the crouching
figure by the roadside, and the panting
beast whose fangs had pulled his old friend
down. Like a madman he started off, and
ran with all his speed until he was far past
the spot, and again on the open road. He
was in sight of the poplar avenue when he
passed the fiacre returning, empty. Walking
still at a brisk pace, in a state of such horrible
excitement as to feel a consciousness that he
was scarcely sane, he passed through the

rows of hissing poplar trees, and into the
courtyard of his employer's house. A fait
light, showing through the little window over
the hall door, appeared and disappeared as he
came up to the house, in the cold and darkness,
glad, feverish as he was, of the strong
breeze which was beginning to roar like the
sea in the birches and poplars. He rang the
bell, but for some minutes no one answered.
He had expected this delay : a ring at such a
time, just after the arrival of a gentleman who
had such strong reason to fear the police,
would naturally be answered with no great
alacrity. He rang again, more loudly ; and
this time a gable window in the roof was
opened quickly, and Delphine's voice, both
angry and sleepy, rang out in unamiable
tones :

"Well, who is it now?" she called out
lustily. " Am I to be kept opening the door
all night ?"

"Delphine, let me in, there's a good girl.
Don't you see who it is ?" said Gerald, who
felt a most disproportionate sense of relief at
the comparatively unimportant circumstance

that the voice of the good-hearted, honest
countrywoman was the first to greet him.

'' Mon Dieu, M. Gerald, c'est done vous!"
cried she, spending some moments in this
futile sort of comment before she could be
induced to slam the window and clatter downstairs
to admit him.

The moment she opened the door he burst
out :

Who was that came just now  in 2 fiacre
-just before me ?"

The peremptory tone in which he asked
this seemed to imply that he was prepared for
an evasive answer. But Delphine stared at
him in honest surprise, and said :

Why, it was only M. Sees !"

'' Smith? Nonsense !'' said Gerald sharply.
I could swear it was not."

But it was !" said she in sleepy astonishment.
' I came down to let him in myself,
just as I have let you in ; and I wish you
gentlemen would keep more convenient
hours."

Did he speak to sou ?"

*' No, monsieur. But "

Where's he gone to ?"

'' To bed. Where else should anybody goat
this time of night ?"

All right, Delphine. Good-night."

He rushed past her and up the stairs so
quickly that he ran against a plump form halfway
down the corridor which led to the bedroom
kept for the occasional visits of the
confidential clerk. It was Smith himself, as
Gerald discovered from the voice in which the
oath came when he trod upon his toe. The
younger man got between him and the door
of his room, took out his match-case and
struck a light, and peered into the other's
face. Smith was only half-dressed, and it was
evident from the look of his eyes and hair
that he had recently been in bed and asleep.

"D n!" said he softly, as he blinked

and drew back. " What are you up to ?"

The weak and querulous voice of Mr. Beresford
was heard from his room.

What is it ? What is the matter ? Who's
that ?" he piped out feebly.

It's me and Staunton, sir," sang out
Smith. 'but the Lord only knows what's

the matter with him. He's jumping on my
toes and striking matches on my nose like a
d -d lunatic."

Come in here."

Rather sheepishly they both stumbled
through the door in the dark. However, m
the bedroom the little veilleuse which Mr.
Beresford kept burning all night gave forth
just enough flickering light for them to seethe
grey-haired paralytic lying, as usual, with
his head and back on a high pile of pillows,
and for him to see the excited and angry faces
of his two clerks.

Sir, there is a murderer in your house
the murderer of Mr. Shaw and of my
father !"

The lad was far too much excited to count
upon the effect of his words, or even to
remember, as he blurted out this statement to
the man whom for so long he had considered
his benefactor, that he suspected him of some
sort of complicity with the criminal. The
paralytic fell back among his pillows apparently
overcome by the shock. But Smith
turned livid, even in the dim light, and shook

like a leaf as this shining black eyes looked
from Beresford to Gerald.

You are mad," he stammered out ; " quite
mad, or else you're screwed. Go to your
room and sleep it oiF, my boy  sleep it off."

But as he was pushing Gerald towards the
door, the paralytic stopped him by a feeble
gesture.

'' Gerald," he called in a weak voice. The
young man came nearer. '' You are a steady
lad, a truthful lad. For heaven's sake say
what you mean."

I followed the murderer from Paris, sir,
and he came to this house. Look at Smith 
he says it was he who came in, but anybody
can see that he has just been fast asleep in
bed."

Because I tumbled in the moment I got
here, you bumpkin idiot," said Smith, who
was growing every moment more excited.

Sh-sh," said Mr. Beresford imperatively.
Gerald, I think you must be mistaken ; I
heard a ring and Smith's step along the
corridor to his room a short time aofo, and I
can't help thinking you must have followed

him from Calais by mistake for the man you
suppose to be a criminal I have heard no
other sound in the house. But come to me in
the morning, and we will talk it over. And,
my boy, learn to be a little more careful in
imparting ghastly suspicions to an invalid.
Your first announcement quite upset me."

He was grave, and not unkind. But he
seemed to resent Gerald's abrupt outburst,
and the young man felt rather small as Smith
elbowed him triumphantly out of the room.

 Holidays don't suit you, my boy ; you're
off your chump," he said nth a coarse and
irritating laugh as he parted with the younger
man in the corridor.

Gerald went towards his room at the other
end of the house as if in a dream. He half
believed that he was really the victim of some
ridiculous mistake, and the thought even
crossed his mind that perhaps, as Smith had
just said, the constant excitement in which he
had lately lived had injured his reason.

As he walked softly along, anxious, deeply
anxious, not to disturb the ladies, the doors of
whose rooms he must now pass, his heart sank

as he heard one of the handles softly turn. In
another moment Peggy, in her white dressing-gown,
stood, candle in hand, in the corridor
before him.

Her little face was flushed and radiant ; her
hair, loosely and hastily fastened up, fell down
most becomingly on her shoulders as she
trembled with joy at the sight of him ; the
tears were gathering in her eyes, her lips
could whisper nothing but, " Oh, Gerald!" as
she held out her disengaged hand and looked
at him in loving passionate welcome.

Gerald stopped. His brain seemed bursting,
the walls swam round.

The whisper of his name reached his ears,
dulled as they were by a singing that made all
other sounds seem faint. He stepped forward,
forcing himself to meet her, to embrace her ;
but as he did so his sight failed. Then out of
a blurred mist he saw the face which had
glared above him in the darkness of the
carriole. With a hoarse smothered cry, the unhappy
lad rushed past her, and locked himself
in the darkness of his own room.

Gerald could not sleep that night ; yet a
nightmare of horror oppressed him during
the long hours that passed before the grey
dawn came. He fancied he heard stealthy
footsteps in the room underneath, and three
times he roamed the whole length of the floor
below, from inner salon to outhouse, hunting,
listening, with his gun in his hand. But
there was no sign of an intruder's presence.
As he passed Peggy's door on his way back
to his room, he listened but could hear
nothing, and he hoped she was asleep. He
was filled with remorse for the cruel repulse
he had given in spite of himself to her loving
welcome ; and he made up his mind that
nothing should prevent his making amends on
the morrow.

But when he came down to breakfast, no
one was in the sails a-manger but Miss M'Leod,
who was quite enthusiastically glad to see him,
and who hopped and chirped about him so
pleasantly that for some time he got no chance
of asking for Peggy.

Oh, Miss Beresford has had her breakfast
and gone out, wandering somewhere among
the varennes I suppose," she answered rather
shortly. " I can't pretend to understand this
young lady at all. After accepting the attentions
of one of the very nicest young gentlemen
 for a Frenchman  whom I have ever
met, and becoming engaged to him, she
suddenly runs away, stays away more than a
fortnight, as I dare say you have heard, and is
brought back by that odious Smith, who seems
quite a friend of hers. This freak affected
poor Mr. Beresford very seriously, as you may
imagine. The day before she returned he was
so ill and so heart-broken, that he shut himself
up in his room, and would not see even
me. Well, she behaves now as if she was the
injured person ; and when I told her this
morning that M. Victor Fournier was coming

here to-day, and Mr. Beresford hoped she
Twould receive him courteously, she laughed in
my slice, and said, in quite a wild, hysterical
way, that M. Fournier was very good, and
that she was afraid she would not be found
worthy of the honour of being sold to him.
My oTi belief, Gerald, is that she has picked
up some ragged admirer or other of her old
wandering days, during: the fortnight that she
has been away  ' with friends of her mother's,'
so she says."

Very likely," said he, in a stifled voice.

He was longing to go in search of her ; his
very heart was bleeding at the thought of the
cruel wound he had inflicted upon her the
night before.

I don't know what wicked spirit has possessed
the girls of this place lately," she
chirped on, as he gulped down his breakfast.
Perhaps you remember that the daughter of
Monnier, the gamekeeper, disappeared from
her father's cottage a month ago in what I
cannot help calling a mysterious manner. It
is not that I wish to be uncharitable  everybody
knows I am the last person in the world

VOL. III. 45

who could be accused of talking scandal  but
I must say it was a strange thing to send her
out to service y when the cottage and garden
have gone to rack and ruin ever since. And
now, if you please, she has come back again,
and "

Babette come back !" interrupted Gerald
with eager interest, which contrasted unfavourably
with the half deaf attention he had
given to the first part of her speech.

Miss M'Leod fixed her light eyes upon him
in a manner which set him blushing, and drew
her small figure up with rigid stateliness.

Yes," she said with a snap. '' When
Jeanette brought the milk this morning, she
said she had met Babette very smartly dressed,
coming from Calais, between eight and nine
o'clock."

Gerald looked at his watch ; it was a quarter
to ten. Miss M'Leod cleared her throat and
said acidly :

'' Pray don't let me detain you, if you are
anxious to be among the first to welcome the
young person back."

Thank you," said Gerald.

And to Miss M'Leod's great disgust, he got
up hastily and left the room. Babette must
have come on the track of De Breteuil, he
thought, and he was most anxious to see her
and learn what she knew. But another wish
outweighed everything else in his mind, ashe
snatched his cap from the primitive row
of mahogany pegs in the hall which served asa
hat-stand, and dashed through the hall-door
and out into the courtyard  it was to go in
search, not of Babette, but of Peggy.

Where should he go ? Along the grass
path to the right which led through the plantation
and the potato-fields to the highest
sandhill ? Or through the garden at the
other side of the house  the question which
was the front and which the back of the
building had never been decided  to the
rickety wooden bench under the willow-tree ?
Or straight across the white sandy paths of
the kitchen-garden, where the great square
beds were bright with the blossoms of the
fruit-trees ? Out beyond, the wood surrounded
this garden on three sides, and there was a
favourite corner of Peggy's, where a stream

452

ran under the trees, and was crossed by a
plank ; it was to this spot that Gerald first
made his way. She was not there ; so he
crossed the stream and the field beyond, where
an old horse was grazing, and got over the
rotten paling on to the lesser sandhill, which
stretched away down to the sea, covered with
a short growth of shaggy grass, and reeds,
and furze, and such tiny flowers as grow in
sandy soils. They were honeycombed with
rabbit-warrens and bare of a single tree, and
the winter seas dashed over them, and every
wind that blew swept up the sand in clouds,
and choked up the reed-growth in some parts
and laid bare its roots in others. It was a
dreary, barren waste; the roofs and walls of
Calais and the old pier stretching out into the
sea formed one long irregular grey line that
bounded but did not break the monotonous
view. The tide was out this morning, and a
bleak expanse of flat sand, darker than that of
the hills, lay between them and the white
foamy edge of the sea.

It was here that Gerald found Peggy,
standing alone on one of the highest of the

low sandy mounds, looking out to sea.
With his heart thumping like that of a
schoolboy about to be introduced to the lady
who has inspired his first romance-fed passion,
in an agony of remorse for his involuntary
cruelty of the night before, Gerald came near
her very softly, and put his arm round her
before she had heard his footsteps. She gave
a wild hysterical shriek, and tried to push him
away ; but he was too strong for her, and he
held her to him, seeing in her frightened eyes
that if he once loosened his clasp, she would
be away like the wind, over the hills and out
of the reach alike of arguments and kisses.
For his love came back, in a torrent of frantic
self-reproach, as he looked into the sad little
frightened face, and felt the touch of her
fragile white fingers as she tried in vain to
push him ofi*.

*' Let me go ! oh, let me go ! You have
broken my heart !" she quavered out, suddenly
ceasing her struggles like a captured bird, and
turning her head away to avoid looking into
his face.

The tears rushed to Gerald's eyes.

Peggy, for pity's sake listen to me. Don't
you love me any more ? Peggy, if you knew
what I have suffered since I saw you, you
would be kind to me, you would indeed," said
he, drawing her to him, caressing her, holding
her head against his shoulder.

But she would, or could, give no response
to his rising tenderness ; and as he pressed his
lips upon hers she drew her head away and
burst into tears.

Don't, don't kiss me ! You don't love me
you only married me out of pity ! Oh, I am
so miserable ! Let me go !"

He looked at her in terror. What did she
know ? Involuntarily he released his clasp so
that she would have found no difficulty in
escaping had she still wished it. But when
his arms fell down from her waist, she gave up
struggling, and as he did not attempt to put
them round her again, she took his right hand
in hers, and played with his fingers while she
looked up in his face.

Gerald, is it true ? Did you only marry
me out of pity ?" she asked plaintively.

My darling, no, no, no ! I married you

because I loved you, because you are the
light of my horrible life," said he passionately'.


She flung her arms round his neck, looking
up into his face with earnestness which made
her eyes holy and sweet, until she seemed to
Gerald an ancrel sent to comfort him in his
misery.

'you mean that! Do you mean that?"
she whispered. " I know you are unhappy;
I think you have things to distress you that I
don't know anything about. I'm afraid so. I
don't want you to tell me them ; you are my
husband, you know best what I ought to
know, and you must not think I want to pry
into your secrets. But let me comfort you
without knowing them; let me sit by you and
talk to you, or sit by you and listen, as I
used to do in London. I won't be tiresome
and tyrannical now, as I was then. I was
ill then; you know I was ill, don't you?" she
insisted earnestly, as Gerald turned his head
away from her. He pressed her little hands
close to his neck without answering. She
went on : '' I'm quite well now ; and I will do

just what you please. But don't, don't turn
from me again as you did last night, as if you
couldn't bear the sight of me." He tried to
stop her, but his voice broke, and so she continued
: " I thought  oh, Gerald ! I know it was
silly, but I couldn't help it  that / had done
something wrong, something to make you
unhappy. And I have been crying half the
night, Wondering what it was "

*' My darling, my sweet little wife, how
could you think such a thing?"

'' You don't know, Gerald, how you looked
as you rushed past me  as if my face had
been that of some one you hated. I couldn't
help making myself miserable by thinking
Madame de Lancry had already made you
sorry you married me, and "

"Peggy, stop!" said Gerald gravely. "I
have scarcely been in my right mind since I
left you : I was half mad last night. You
must forgive my strange manner to you, and
forget all about it. And if I keep some
secrets from you for a little while, you must
not mind "

I don't want your confidence, I want your

love!" she burst out passionately. "Everybody's
always trusted me, but nobody's ever
loved me like you. You may lock up your
letters, you may talk to me as you would to a
dog : I want your love, Gerald, I want your
love ! I can't rest when you are away, without
something you have touched in my hand ; I
am thirsty for the sound of your voice ; I
could die quite easily if by my death you
could be happier "

Peggy, for heaven's sake don't talk like
that!" cried Gerald, as he held her clasped in
his arms and gazed through a gathering mist
in his eyes down on her upturned face as she
looked dreamily up at him.

She suddenly drew herself up, passed her
hand slowly over her eyes, laughing to
herself.

Ah, you don't believe me! Nobody ever
really believes that one person could die for
another. But listen, Gerald. I've had an
awfully hard life, and if it were not for you, I
shouldn't care to have any more of it. And
you  poor boy ! you've had a hard time of it too.
And if I were ever really to see, as I almost

thought I saw last night, that by marrying
me you brought some fresh trouble upon you,
I shouldn't say anything about it to you or
to anybody, but I should just jump into the
sea and make an end of it."

She had turned in his arms, and was looking
out at the foamy white waves with dreamy
eyes that seemed to see far beyond the gray
sea-line. Gerald was chilled by her words,
by the fanatical resolution in her little whiteface.
He turned her head with a tender but
firm hand away from the sea towards his own
loving eyes.

You are going to forget all your sad life
and all your nervous fancies," said he gently.
And very soon you are going away from
this horrible place with a husband who will
give all his life to working for you and making
you happy."

She looked up into his gentle gray eyes as
if trying to see in them the picture his Avoids
presented. Then her face suddenly changed.

' Who was that man who came into the
house late last night, Gerald?" she asked
abruptly.

He turned white and cold from head to foot.

Wasn't it ]mr. Smith !" he asked in a
hoarse voice, which he evidently tried hard to
control. " Delphine said it was."

No," said she, looking at him curiously.
Ashen I heard a ring, I thought it must be
you, and I half-opened my door and held it so
that I could peep out as some one came up the
stairs. And it was a man in a travelling cloak
like the one Mr. Smith wears. I could see him
in outline, you know, against the staircase
window behind him. But just as he got to
the top he turned his head, and it was not
Mr. Smith, but a man with a nose like Victor
Fournier's."

'like Victor's!" burst out Gerald.

Oh, it wasn't he! Do you know who it
was, Gerald?"

He was in a state of intense and terrible
excitement : she closed her eyes, and laid her
head upon his shoulder.

'' Ah! it is one of the things I am not to
know. Very well."

He bent his head and kissed her with
trembling lips.

*' Come with me, my darling," he said
tenderly; ' I have to go to Monnier's cottage,
and I don't want you to go indoors without
me."

So they went hand in hand, like children,
over the varennes and through the poplar
avenue, at the entrance of which Gerald left
her to wait for him.

The gamekeeper's cottage was only a few
hundred yards away. As Gerald came near,
he was struck with the sudden appearance of
active life about the place, which seemed to
have passed the period of Babette's absence ina
state of suspended animation. The donkey,
laden with a couple of big baskets, was waiting
at the gate. The lark, in its wicker cage,
hung again outside the door. The chickens,
banished by a fresh fencing of furze from the
garden, were contentedly scraping and
flapping in the field at the side. But before
he had gone through the garden gate, Gerald
learnt that this state of peace did not reign
inside the cottage. Through the open door
came the voices of Monnier and his daughter
in loud dispute. As Gerald had predicted to

lier during her miserable Paris life, now that
she had returned to the cottage she could
more than hold her own. Every low growl
of remonstrance in Monnier's gruff voice was
received with a volley of patois in his
daughter's shrill treble.

Just when I am out of favour with le
patron, you must needs go and get me out
of favour with monseigneur also, by sour
freaks."

"AVell, and whose fault is it that you are
out of favour with M. Beresford ? If you
hadn't gone and mixed yourself up with this
monseigneur, as you call him, who is after all
nothing but a thief and a swindler, and perhaps
a murderer too, for all I know "

"Sh-sh! you impudent hussy what are
you saying ?"

Well, you know better than me. But I
tell you I'll have no more of it. This fine
gentleman has brought ill-luck to both of us,
and you ought to be ashamed of yourself for
having let him inside the door ; I'd like to
set M. le Cure at you about it, that I would.
But we'll have no more to do with him,

understand that. I'll set his beast free this
very night ; and what mischief he does must
fall on your head, for "

She stopped. Gerald, who had been gently
clearing his throat at the door to try to
awaken them to the fact of his presence, here
walked boldly in. Monnier, with a sinister
look of alarm, disappeared into the back
room: Babette, with sudden and most becoming
shyness, hung her head ; whether
entirely from shame at the position in which
he had last seen her, or partly from humiliation
at her altered surroundings, he did not
know.

Oh, Babette, how do you do ?" said he,
as if she had never been away.

And he held out his hand, which she took
just in the old shy manner.

Pigs all right ?" he asked after an awkward
pause.

It was a happy inspiration, for it opened
the flood-gates of Babette' s eloquence. The
pigs were a sore point just now.

"N'o, they're not all right," she broke out
indignantly. 'ras if they could be all right,

with no looking after ! The bio-est of the
young ones has grubbed his way right
through under the wall, and he'd have had
the fence down in another day ; he ought to
have had a ring put through his nose. Anybody
with any sense might have known that !"
Ah, there's nobody like you to look after
things, Babette."

She grew shy again. The home-coming to
the simple pleasures and toils she naturally
loved had brought into view the best part of
her character. Her nature was too coarse,
her relations were too ignorant, for her to
feel keenly that the experience she had just
gone through was a degradation : indeed, her
father had plainly shown her that in his eyes
the degradation lay in her return. But there
had been working vaguely in her mind some
sort of better instinct, which would soon have
been stifled had her life in Paris proved more
to her taste, but which, as the case stood, was
sufficiently strong to confirm her in her intention
of leading an honest life for the future.

There was silence for a few moments. Then
he ventured to ask :

What made you come back so suddenly,
Babette ?"

Madame de L an cry."

He started ; but as he said nothing, she
continued, after a pause :

She came to see me last night, and while
she was there he came in; I don't know what
happened, for when I heard him coming I ran
away and hid myself. But a couple of hours
later she came again and talked me into
coming away with her, and we travelled all
night, and I left her at the station this
morning and came on here."

Then she is in Calais now ?"

*' I suppose so."

Gerald was hurrying to the door. Suddenly
he stopped.

Babette," he asked in a low voice, " what
was it you were saying when I came in about
about a fierce animal ?"

'' Allons, M. Gerald, I have told you
enough," said she, glancing round her with
sudden fear.

And, seeing that she was resolved not to
open her mouth upon the subject, Gerald

wished her good-bye, and ran out of the
cottage and down the road to where Peggy
was waiting.

Peggy, my darling," said he, laying his
hand affectionately on her shoulder, " do you
think you could walk all the way to Calais,
now, at once, just as you are ?"

She looked up surprised, but assented
meekly at once, though she had nothing on
her head but a garden hat, and wore no
mantle and no gloves. Gerald gave her his
arm, and they started without delay.

He was going to appeal to Madame de
Lancry's kindness of heart to shelter his poor
little wife in the time of trouble and excitement
which he foresaw at " Les Bouleaux."

VOL. III. 46

Gerald and Peggy trudged along towards
Calais side by side, both grave, silent, and
anxious, and yet both feeling the old magnetic
happiness in each other's society.

Where are you going to take me to,
Gerald ?" she asked presently, like a child.

To Madame de Lancry."

Peggy looked startled, but resolutely refrained
from protest.

M. Victor Fournier will be disappointed
when he calls at ' Les Bouleaux ' to-day,"
said Gerald, with evident satisfaction.

Peggy laughed.

** Oh no !" she said simply. " If my
father thinks M. Victor still wishes to marry
me, he will be disappointed. I wrote to him

from England, telling him very plainly that I
couldn't ever be his wife ; and he wrote back,
saying quite as plainly that he didn't wish
me to be. It was a very honos letter, full of
compliments ; but it was perfectly clear. I
think he must have become dissatisfied with
my father's giving me no ' dot,' or else he
must think Mdlle. Ernestine's will might be
contested."

Gerald, who knew nothing of Madame de
Lancry's interview with Victor, and who
considered Peggy too lovely for any man to
be quite insensible to her charms, thought this
interpretation rather too cynical; but at any
rate it was satisfactory to know that Victor s
withdrawal made one complication the less.

On arriving at the Hotel de la Gare, Gerald
was disappointed to find that Madame de
Lancry was out. The General, hearing his
voice, however, ran downstairs, and was
demonstratively joyful to find that he had
brought the little English girl with him.

' I cannot tell you when my wife will be
in," he said, somewhat uneasily. " She took
it into her head to leave Paris last night, and

462

to come back here, bringing with us a strange
young lady, very excitable, and whose education
appeared to have been neglected. We
did not get here until half-past eight, and
now it is not three o'clock, and already she
has gone out, without telling me what she
was going for. I think I indulge her too
much  I am getting tired of being treated in
this manner ; and if madame does not return
soon, and give me a full and reasonable
account of her absence, I shall return to Paris
this evening alone."

With which awful threat, uttered with
seriousness that appeared pathetic to Gerald,
who fancied that this flight would concern
Madame de Lancry very little, the General
relaxed into his usual courteous gentleness,
and said humbly that he supposed he could
do nothing for them ; it was madame they
wanted, not he.

But you can do something for us, if you
will, monsieur," said Gerald eagerly. *' I
came to ask Madame de Lancry if she would
take care of  of my wife, while I go to
business''

The old General was delighted to have an
opportunity of showing kindness to any one ;
and though he was at first disturbed at
hearing that Peggy was the young man's
wife, as his experience of the matrimonial
bond was that it left its contractors a great
deal too much liberty, he consoled himself by
thinking that perhaps, since Gerald was in the
first blush of the honeymoon, his business
with Madame de Lancry would be something
drier and more practical than flirtation.

Come upstairs," he said eagerly. " I
will take care of Madame Staunton quite as
well as my wife could do."

The long walk, and the emotions of the
morning, had tired Peggy so much, that she
frightened both gentlemen by fainting as soon
as she reached the sitting-room. Her young
husband therefore found it impossible to leave
her even when she regained consciousness ;
and as the old General, with a long sigh of
envy at their happiness, left them together
after Peggy had been made to eat and drink,
the afternoon faded into evening, while Gerald
sat by the sofa on which his young wife lay.

During all these hours Madame che Lancry
did not return. At last, as the clock struck
six, the General came back into the sitting-room
in a state of alarm at his wife's long
absence which caused the young man to start
up ashamed of his own forgetfulness.

I will go and look for her, monsieur," he
said hurriedly. " I think I shall be able to
find her."

And, not noticing the dismay on the
General's face at this confident announcement,
he pressed his wife's hand silently, wished
them both good-bye, and left the hotel for
Les Bouleaux " as fast as his feet could
carry him.

The walk was not a long one now that he
was alone. The gloom which had pervaded
his thoughts lately had been so much raised
by the happy hours he had just spent with
Peggy that the awful associations of the road
had now little power over him ; and it was
with a great shock that he saw on the road,
just as he came in sight of the entrance to the
poplar avenue, a band of police walking in
that direction. For a moment his heart stood

still as he watched them ; the next, he saw-that
they were passing the avenue, and going
straight along the road.

In an instant he guessed that they must be
going to Monnier's cottage. For the gamekeeper
he did not care ; but would poor
Babette, on her return to innocent life, be
dragged into this affair? He would warn
her, at any rate. Gerald knew a path through
the plantation and the fields which, though
not shorter than the one by which the police
came, would take him to the cottage before
them at the pace he could go. Through the
long grass and the branches, and over the
rough ground he scrambled and ran, dashing
through the cottage door just in time to
prevent Babette, who was entering with a
heap of sun-dried clean clothes on her arm,
from shutting it.

Babette, Babette !" he panted out. " The
police are coming here. Look out, if you
have anything to be afraid of."

She stood the shock well ; but it was a
shock. She was not of the fainting or
screaming sort, this stolid young peasant

woman. With ease and quickness of wit,
which had deserted her so strangely when
she was out of her element in Paris, she put
her finger on her lips, closed the front door,
drew the bolt, and then disappeared through
the next room, the door of which she left
open, into the outhouse beyond.

Gerald heard the drawing of another bolt,
the savage growl of a fierce animal, and ina
few moments Babette returned, drew back
again the bolt of the fiont door, and led him
out by the arm into the garden.

In the grey dusk, which was rapidly
darkening into night, she pointed out across
the bare expanse of field and heath at the
back to something that looked in the obscurity
no blacker than a shadow, moving rapidly
further and further into the distance.

Don't go out to-night on the varennes orin
the woods, if you can help it," she
whispered hoarsely. '' Or, if you must go,
take your gun."

She gave him a push towards the garden-gate,
and ran into the cottage. Gerald,
bewildered and anxious, crossed the road, and

got into the plantation just in time to avoid
being seen by the policemen, whom he could
see between the trees. They entered the
cottage  they surrounded it; apparently they
made a search, and retired disappointed. For
when their leader came out at the door,
Babette followed him down the path with her
hands on her hips, and slanged him violently
and indignantly.

Au chateau," said the leader ; and they
set off again in the direction of the avenue.

Gerald dashed through the plantation, broke
through the frail paling into the garden at
the first point he came to, and made straight
across the lawn for the salon windows, where
a light came through the blinds. Before he
could reach them, however, Delphine, planting
one heavy foot in the middle of the principal
rose-bed, stopped him, and pointed to the
house.

"That tall lady, Madame  Madame de
Lancry, has been here waiting two hours for
M. Beresford, who will not see her. He is
in the inner sally and he has locked the door,
and madame waits, and waits  and "

Gerald shook lier off.

*ein the inner salon! Nonsense, Delphine.
I see Mr. Beresford there between the trees,
walking towards the peach wall' said he.

Even in the growing darkness under the
tall trees of the garden it was impossible to
mistake the slow gait and stooping figure.

'* By Jove ! He's going out at the side-gate
1 He mustn't go into the plantation at
this time of night alone, after what Babette
said."

Gerald hesitated for a minute to see whether
Mr. Beresford would come back. But the
shadowy figure had passed out of sight behind
the trees, and did not reappear. A conviction
that there was some meaning in this solitary
night-ramble grew strong upon him as he
watched, and after a few seconds' deliberation,
Gerald dashed through the salle-manger by
which Delphine had come out, through the
kitchen, and into the outhouse where the
guns were kept. He took his own, saw that
it was loaded, and slipped out into the yard
with it. He reached the grass avenue which
led to the hills, and, running a few steps

down it to see Avliether Mr. Beresford bad
taken this path, saw a figure at some distance
in front of him.

' It can't be Mr. Beresford with his Lame
leo' ; he could never have hobbled half so far,"
thought he.

But the very next moment he trod upon
something which proved to be the heavy
crutch-stick by which the paralytic helped
himself along, and with a hot, excited feeling
that he was on the point of making some
strange discovery, Gerald gave chase to the
figure in front of him; he could only see it
now and then, faint and shadowy in the
distance ; his gun impeded him, and he would
in his eagerness have cast it aside, if it had
not been for the impressiveness of Babette's
warning. The animal, whatever it was, that
she had pointed out to him as she uttered her
last whisper, had escaped in the direction
of the higher sandhill, to which he and the
man he was pursuing were making their
way.

The end of the grass-path was reached at
last, the sandy road which crossed it at right

angles passed, and even in the gray night,
before the moon had risen high, Gerald could
see far before him on the open treeless hills.
Alas that, could that be Mr. Beresford, that
man who, with his long gray hair flying, was
scudding over the sandy heath as fast as
Gerald himself ? What motive, strong enough
to make him forget his infirmity as though he
had been a young, strong man, could bring
him out here on these lonely hills in the
chilling night air, unless indeed he had as
great reason to fear the police as the murderer
De Breteuil himself

Gerald could not think clearly as he hurried
along, now stumbling among the weedy growths
of reed and furze, now stopping an instant as the
horrible sound of a long hungry howl broke
upon his ears and made him look to left and
right with a fear he could not control. Twice
he heard it, to the right and far ahead the
first time ; nearer and straight ahead the
second. He had lost ground each time that
he stopped ; the space between him and the
man he was following had perceptibly increased
by the time that a ruined cabin,

standing on higher ground than the uneven
sandy heath they were now crossing, came
in sight. The sand-dunes were to the right ;
the sea was to the left ; the tide was rolling in
quickly over the flat dark stretch of sand, and
making a little splash as each long wave
broke against the reedy, samphire-grown
banks above.

Just as the man in front, who was making
straight for the half-roofless hovel, got within
a hundred yards of it, the echoes brought
down from the hill nearest to him a panting
and galloping sound which made him redouble
his speed, Awhile Gerald, who heard it
also, shouted with all the force of his lungs :

"Lookout!"

The warning was useless. The next
moment there half-fell, half-sprang down the
hill a shaggy beast with hanging tongue and
foaming jaws, who leapt upon the repaired
man and felled him to the ground with
a growl that froze Gerald's blood. For he
had heard it before  heard it six weeks ago as
Mr. Shaw was dragged down from his side in
the Saint Pierre road.

The young man whistled and shouted as,
still holding his gun, and watching with wild
eyes the struggle between man and beast as
they rolled in clouds of sand, he redoubled his
failing speed over the loose ground, to the
rescue. As he came up he was shocked to
see that the man lay already quite still ; the
beast's fangs were plainly to be seen in the
faint light of the rising moon, as he held
his victim firmly by the throat, shaking him
from time to time with a low growl, but never
for one moment loosing his grip. Gerald
stopped, raised his gun, took a steady aim,
and shot the beast through the body. A
tremor passed over it, and Gerald, not knowing
whether his shot had taken effect, was about
to fire again. Then the great carcase swayed
and fell over on its side, dead without having
relaxed its grip.

Gerald knew that he had succeeded, knew
that the beast was powerless now to do him
or any other creature harm ; but at first he
did not dare to come nearer. It was the man
he feared, the figure he had pursued, lying
still and stiff on the rough ground just where

the moon's rays were beginning to cast a faint
line of light.

That he should see a dead face  he feared 
he knew ; for no faintest sound or movement
came from the confused dark heap that a few
moments before was a man. But a dread too
strong, too awful, to find expression even in
thought held him back, while beads of sweat
stood on his forehead, and words which were
a prayer to the God we all call upon when
reason fails us came to his lips :

"God help me!"

It was some minutes  he thought at the
time it must have been hours  before he dared
to approach the ghastly sight. When he did
so, and, kneeling down with a shudder beside
the dead man, forced open the jaws of the
beast he had killed, and took one long look at
the rigid human face, ghastly in the weak
moonlight, he had gained by the delay just
self-control enough to gaze steadily and
without flinching at the thin, sharp features,
the cruel, hard mouth, of the man who had
leant over him in the carriole on the night of
the attack. The false white beard and eyebrows

had been torn off in the struggle with
the beast that had killed him, the real dark
hair was now plainly to be seen underneath
the gray wig, and Gerald knew that his
employer, Mr. Beresford, was his father's
murderer, Louis de Breteuil.

Gerald got up from the ground, feeling giddy
and sick. One look at the dead brute that
had, as Gerald guessed, killed its master
through failing to recognise him in his disguise,
showed the powerful but emaciated
form of a huge wolf-hound, and it was easy to
see that starvation must have had something
to do with its fierceness.

The moon, which was growing brighter
every moment, for some time gave no other
light for Gerald ; the sound of the sea seemed
to swell into a dull roar, which filled his ears
and deafened him. Blindly he staggered away
from the horrible spot, leaving his gun beside
the dead man. Straight back over the rough
ground he ran, as soon as he recovered the

VOL. III. 47

power of his limbs, without one look behind.
Peggy  he must get back to Peggy ; or some
clumsy revelation of the truth might kill her,
delicate as she still was from her recent illness.


When he got near to " Les Bouleaux," he
heard men's voices, and peeping through the
trees, saw that the police were still about.
Afraid of being detained if he showed himself,
he crept round through the plantation, and
came forth into the road within a few yards of
the entrance to the poplar avenue. Here he
paused for a moment, and looked at the sandy
road before him with a momentary fear that
he should not be able to reach Calais in time
to be the first with the news. His strength
seemed failing him already ; the terrible scene
he had witnessed not half an hour ago suddenly
faded from his mind, leaving him
nothing but one dim idea  Peggy ! He must
get to Peggy. With a strong effort, not of
will but of instinct, he started forward, stumbling
at first, cold and wet from head to foot
from the prolonged exertion. But as he ran
he gradually recovered somewhat, until he fell

into a mechanical, swinging, steady pace that
he kept up almost without a break for the
whole three miles of the way to the fortifications.
On the drawbridge he stopped short,
leaning against the rail for a few minutes with
hanging head and heavy breathing. Then on
again, through the stony streets of the old
town.

Ten o'clock struck from the big clock on
the town-hall tower as he crossed the marketplace
 only one more street now. He staggered
along through the thinning crowd, who
thought he was drunk, and made way for him,
and laughed at him. Thud  thud over the
drawbridge that crossed the shallow evil-smelling
moat trickling along in the darkness
far below ; over the open stone-paved space
between the walls and the quay. It was over
now : he had nothing to do but to slip through
the still open door of the hotel, and to drag
himself up the stairs, to stagger and almost
crawl along the corridor to Madame de
Lancry's sitting-room. He reached the door,
his fingers were on the handle they were too
wet and weak to turn, when Smith's oily

472

voice in confident and even threatening tones
reached his ears.

Well, I'm her husband, and that's flat ;
and if you can't make it convenient to help
me away, I must wait until she comes in, and
see what she can do. Dare say she'll want to
come back to me. ' On revient toujours a ses
premieres amours.' I could do with a little
conjugal petting just now."

Yilain ! Scelerat !" quavered the General's
voice. But he added after a pause : '* What
do you want ?"

Well, say fifty pounds. You can afford it,
since you're so fond of her. And make haste
I must be ofi."

There was a pause, and Gerald heard the
snap of an elastic band, the rustle of notes,
and the chink of gold.

'' I have not enough here. I must write
you a cheque," said the General's voice.

Then be quick, for God's sake! Here, no,
this'll do ; cheques ain't much use to me."

More rustling, more chinking ; then Smith's
step came hurriedly towards the door.

Thank you. Good-evening. My kind

regards. Glad you're brood to her  I

was t.

He opened the door, and Gerald, with a
last effort of his remaining strength, fell upon
him and seized him by the collar.

General, stop him ! he's a murderer  a
thief !" he gasped. " He has been telling you
lies  lies !"

To the utter astonishment of Smith, who
shook off the exhausted lad without much
difficulty, the old General seized him in a
workmanlike grip, forced him back into the
sitting-room, dragged Gerald gently in, shut
the door, and stood with his back to it.

Yhat is this, Gerald ?" he asked sternly.

De Breteuil is dead  killed by his own
dog. This man was his accomplice, and must
be handed over to the police."

What  what  what ?" babbled Smith,
white and shaking. " I've told lies  have I ?
Wait until your precious wife comes back,
and see what she says. She was at ' Les
Bouleaux ' when 1 got away. I don't suppose
she will be honos in folio win of me. There's
some one driving up this minute!" he cried, as

the sound of wheels was heard on the stones
of the quay.

And he ran to the window. A little square
carriage, something like a small private omnibus,
had stopped at the hotel door, and Madame de
Lancry got out of it, followed by Miss M'Leod,
and they both disappeared for the time from
sight as they came in. Smith affected to grow
exultingly triumphant, and the General looked
at him with a troubled face. They had not
long to wait before the door opened, and
Madame de Lancry came in alone, as dignified
as usual, but very pale. She did not seem at
all disconcerted at the sight of Smith, but
walked straight up to Gerald, who had sunk
down upon a chair, and, drawing off her glove,
placed her hand gently on his forehead.

Poor boy!" she said in an unusually soft
voice. " You have had your revenge at last;
and I have had part of mine."

She looked significantly at Smith, who
hopped off the chair on which he had been
defiantly sitting, and held up his finger at her
with a comical mixture of anxiety and bravado.

I suppose you know that a wife "

Can find out the weak places of a devoted
husband's conduct, and make them speak for
themselves to any judge and jury."

Smith began to look very uncomfortable.
She continued :

*' I have just come from ' Les Bouleaux,'
where, through one of the maid servants  a
girl called Delphine  a dead body has been
found among the sandhill, and identified as
that of Louis de Breteuil. He was killed by
a wolf-hound which had been placed by him
in the care of Monnier, the gamekeeper ; the
brute was doubly fierce to-day, having been
kept without its food through a quarrel
between ]\Ionnier and his daughter, who set
it loose to-day on hearing that the police were
coming. She has confessed that she and her
father knew something of the depredations of
De Breteuil, but neither had any idea until
to-night that he and Mr. Beresford were one
and the same person."

Only the General looked surprised. Smith
sat quite still, except for the twitching of his
face.

'' This was part  only part of a very ingenious

fraud, by which, for the past six years
or more, Louis de Breteuil has lived a double
life, and saved himself up, by a quiet and
economical existence for nearly two-thirds of
each year, for the expenses and excesses
of the remainder. Very ingenious, wasn't
it?"

Nobody made any answer to this, except
that Smith growled something between his
teeth.

"But there was another arrangement, equally
ingenious, by which the Honourable Mr.
Corrie, otherwise M. de Breteuil, otherwise
Mr. Beresford, was able to fulfil the bold and
useful design of being in two places at once.
He had an accomplice "

Smith sprang up. At once her composure
gave way, and like a tigress she started
forward, and leaning over the table with her
right hand pointed straight at him and her
eyes flashing, said in a low imperious voice :

'' Sit down."

He hesitated, and obeyed, hanging his head
like a whipped cur, and only raising it from
time to time to look at her out of the corners

of his eyes in the manner of the same noble
beast.

The gentleman," she continued, " who
married, deserted, and finally sold a helpless
and then most innocent girl, nearly twelve
years ago, had already qualified himself to
execute any amount of dirty work with punctuality
and despatch. Therefore, when Mr.
de Breteuil Beresford was in Paris, Mr. Smith
Beresford "  he leaped up again ; this time
she merely glanced at the door as a hint,
which he took, that he had better resume his
seat  " who had for some time been an ornament
of the stage, took his place. The credit
of the disguise chosen  a clever one, I admit
belongs probably to this gentleman, and not
to Lord Kingscliffe's scapegrace son."

What infernal nonsense \" broke out the
unhappy clerk, who could not keep silent or
still. '"AVhy, De Breteuil was a tall, thin
man, and I'm "

A short fat one. That is why I call the
disguise clever. But when I was at " Les
Bouleaux " just now, having a little time to
spare, as you capered ofi* as soon as I appeared,

and your accomplice shut himself up in the
inner salon and refused to see me, I took the
liberty of walking upstairs, and found both
your room and De Breteuil's. I afterwards
showed two of the police into those apartments,
where they were able to make some
interesting discoveries. These included silver-gray
wigs, eyebrows and beards, padded coats
for De Breteuil, boots raised inside at the heel
to give additional height for you, and other
very neat contrivances. It was also a clever
idea to engage a purblind old idiot as valet.
You were both fertile in clever ideas ; the only
one foolish idea either of you seems to have
had was that you could deceive me  again."

Why, do you mean to say that you recognised
' He stopped.

'' You both ? Yes. I knew De Breteuil
when I saw him at the station here after the
robbery ; and I knew that he had committed
it." Gerald started. " You may as well tellus
now how that was done."

Smith hesitated. Then sullenly, yet with
an evident flicker of pride in the neatness of
the achievement, he muttered ;

'' I cut the cushion and put the chloroform
m at Paris, before the train started, Then the
two English fools had left their bags and rugs
to go to the buffet. The guv'nor  De Breteuil
took the cork out at Amiens, where Miss
M'Leod got out to fetch him some chocolate.
He had lots of time to find the notes when
they were all asleep, and to write a telegram
to an unknown address which he substituted
afterwards for the one Shaw dictated to Lord
Keighley."

And where did he hide the notes ?" asked
Gerald breathlessly.

Under his wig."

So Mr. Shaw was murdered because he
had confessed to having a clue to the
robbery ?" said Madame de Lancry, in a hard
voice.

Smith broke out in great agitation :

I had nothing to do with that ; I swear I
hadn't. I went out noisily and returned at
once quietly by De Breteuil's orders, put on
the disguise, and took his place in the salon
just before Mr. Shaw left. When I guessed
there was something up, I went into the hall,

and sent Peggy to tell them to drive fast.
Didn't I, Gerald ? now speak up, man!"

' Yes, yes," said Gerald hoarsely.

I was awfully shocked when Victor came
back, I swear I was. It was all De Breteuil
could do to make me keep on with him. I
stayed at * Les Bouleaux ' after that as Beresford,
while De Breteuil was in Paris. And a
ghastly time it was for me." Smith had got
hold of the idea that candid satisfaction of his
hearers' curiosity  especially as one of them
knew so much  was his best chance. " I
suppose you recognised me that time you
called upon me in the morning ?" he asked
abruptly.

Yes," said Madame de L an cry. " After
that I had solved the puzzle, and had only to
find proofs which would convince others.
Why was De Breteuil so anxious to get his
daughter to return to ' Les Bouleaux ' that he
did such a dangerous thing as to send you to
fetch her in your own proper person, leaving
no ' Mr. Beresford ' at ' Les Bouleaux' ?"'

He thought he could still get young
Fournier, who was in debt, to marry her."

And it Alas you who, at Nice, personated
Mr. Beresford and induced old Mademoiselle
Ernestine to leave her money to Victor on
condition that he married an English girl ?"

Smith nodded.

Very disinterested."

"No," said he simply, " half profits."

What do you mean ? Mademoiselle
Ernestine's money was to go to Victor, who
was quite innocent of your scheming."

But his father wasn't. It was a bargain
that if Victor got the money, part of it should
be settled on Miss Peg. Of course papa
would have had the control of that. D'ye
see f

Perfectly."

Then if you're satisfied, I needn't take up
your time any longer. Good-evening."

She stood aside to let him pass. Gerald
started forward to prevent him, but Madame
de Lancry raised her hand. As the young
man paused, astonished at her forbearance.
Smith took the opportunity to escape.

Madame, why do you let him go ?" asked
Gerald hotly. " We two are satisfied, but I

want the whole world to know that my father
was murdered ; and if Smith can tell so much
about Mr. Shaw's death, he must know something
of my father's."

He knows no more than I can tell," she
said gravely. " I have made a statement to
the police, which Smith will probably confirm
to them."

To the police ! But he will surely not
dare to go to them !"

Go downstairs and see."

Gerald left the room and obeyed. A crowd
filled the ground-floor corridor of the hotel,
and streamed out at the door in the rear of a
group to which Gerald elbowed his way.
Smith, swearing and protesting, was being
led by two gendarmes to fiacre.

The young Englishman watched him, as he
was unceremoniously lifted into the carriage
and driven off, with uncontrollable satisfaction.
Smith's share in the crimes of his
harder and more inhuman accomplice had
been too great for justice to be satisfied without
his punishment. Half stunned by the
awful events of the day, exhausted by his

own share in them, Gerald stood for a few
minutes on the quay before returning to the
General and Madame de Lancry.

On finding themselves alone together, both
the General and his wife had remained for a
short time in silence, she standing by the
window watching the excited crowd underneath,
he watching her. As the fiacre containing
Smith drove away, she turned from
the window with a deep breath of gloomy
satisfaction.

The General came a step towards her.

Madeline," said he in a quavering voice,
'was it true  that he said?"

' Yes. He married me twelve years ago,
and deserted me a few months afterwards,"
she answered in a hard, dry voice. " I
thought he was dead : I married  believed I
married  again  when I found out that I had

been deceived " She stopped. Into her

great eyes came a dim reflection of the horror
she had felt when, standing outside the little
cafe eleven years ago, she had seen Smith and
Louis de Breteuil sharing the money stolen
from the murdered Mr, Staunton.

The General's lips quivered, and he withdrew
his eyes from her face.

It was very wrong of me to marry you, I
know," she said in a steady voice, after a long
pause. " And the punishment has fallen not
on me, but on you, who have borne with my
ill-temper and ingratitude so long." He tried
to interrupt her, but she went on without
seeming even to hear him. " But I had been
cruelly treated, and though I led a perfectly
harmless life after the awful discoveries I
made about De Breteuil and  and his accomplice,
the sense of right and wrong in me was
dead. I have had my revenge now," she
continued calmly and lifelessly ; " and I have
time to be sorry for you. You will forgive
me, I know, for you have always been good
and generous to me. Good-bye!"

She put out her hand, then drew it back at
once, and crossed the room towards the door.
Then she turned, and gave him one look that
was not without affection. He started forward,
only as far as the table, and asked in a
hoarse voice :

Where are you going?"

' I am going to see poor little Peggy.
Henriette tells me she took her to my room
and made her lie down. The poor child must
be taken to England to-night, to escape the
investigation which would be sure to come to
her ears."

'' You cannot take her. She will want to
go with her husband."

I can at least go as far as Dover with
them."

"Why? why? where will you go? They
will not want you ; it is I who want you,
adeline. Are you going to leave me now?"

She seemed so broken in spirit, now that
her awful work of revenge was successfully
accomplished, that her old imperious decision
of manner had left her. She turned hesitatingly,
with drooping head and tears in her
eyes.

Madeline," whispered the General.
Madeline !" and he came nearer. " This
villain has deserted you for years now : you
are free  by the English lav you are free.
My wife you are now  you always will be 
in my eyes, if I never see you again. Marry

VOL. III. 48

me again now, and you will be my wife in the
eyes of all men."

She still hung her head for a few moments,
and he saw a tear roll down her face. Then
she looked at him very sweetly.

"You're not tired of your bargain yet?
How do you know that I may not be more
self-willed, more petulant than ever?"

You may be, if you like. I loved you
before, as you know. Now I learn what you
have suffered, I  I think I worship you,
madeline. Let me be your husband still,
and you shall be as free as you please : only
let me think you will keep the shelter of my
name, if you will not have that of my arms."

Madeline broke down into tears, and turning
towards him with an incoherent whisper
of thanks, of gratitude, she let him raise her
head and press his lips upon her forehead.
He had scarcely done so when a step in the
corridor made Madeline start up and go
quickly to the door.

"It is Gerald!" she said as she opened it,
and the young man came in, looking haggard
and anxious.

"Where is Peggy, madame?" lie asked at
once.

I will take you to lier.'

%/

She led him along the corridor to the door
of her own room, opened it and went in. Ina
few moments her maid Henriette came outwith
a very soft tread, and beckoned him
in. On the sofa Peggy was lying, curled
up like a child, asleep. Madame de Lancry's
hand wis already laid on her shoulder.

*' You must take her to England to-night,
Gerald. You can tell her her father has died
suddenly, and get some doctor to forbid her
to read for six months, as crying has affected
her eyesight. Do you understand? Take
her to the seaside, to Eastbourne or Hastings,
and write to your father's friends from there.
When the case comes out, as it will do, there
will be a rush of sympathy for you, and a
scramble to give you employment. In the
meantime, we will lend you whatever you
want, and you have nothing to do but to keep
the story from this poor child's ears."

Yes, madame."

wake up, Peggy, wake up!"

482

And Madeline, whose hatred towards the
girl had given place, now that her vengeance
was satisfied, to womanly pity, laid one hand
on the little flushed face with great tenderness.

Peggy started up, and blinked in a
bewildered manner at the wax candles on the
dressing-table, then glanced round at the two
tall dark women's figures standing over her,
with a low cry of childish fright. Gerald came
quickly between them, and with a sleepy smile
she stretched out her arms to him and let her
drowsy head fall on his shoulder.

Have I been asleep?" she asked.

Oh no, my darling, not at all !" said
Gerald, in a husky attempt to be playful.

Madame de L an cry slipped Peggy's hat onto
her head before the girl was yet fully
awake.

' You must get up now, dear child," said
she gently. " Your husband is going to take
you over to England to-night, and you must
both have something to eat first."

The words '' your husband " made Peggy
start, and she rose to her feet at once, and
docilely allowed herself to be led to the sitting-room,

where she sat very silently, casting
furtive glances of affection at Gerald, and
puzzled looks at Madame de Lancry, who
busied herself in finding a rug and cloak
to keep her warm on her night-journey. When
it was time to start, and Madame de Lancry
was occupied with Henriette, who was putting
on her mantle, Peggy crept to the General's
side and took his hand.

' I don't know Avhat all this means," she
quavered softly. " But I know it has something
to do with you. You have been so kind."

He got up, drew her hand through his arm,
and led her towards the door.

It means," he said, " that you are going
to be very happy at last ; and so, I think,
am I."

almost in silence she let him lead her
down to the pier, where the Dover boat was
waiting ; Gerald followed with Madame de
Lancry. None of them had much to say to
each other, but they stood together for a little
while before the two younger ones went onboard,
and the men shook hands, and Madeline
kissed Peggy.

But when the Paris train had come in, and
the bustle of the passengers coming on board
was over, and the steamer was going out of
the harbour, Peggy clung more closely to her
husband, and pointed to the white handkerchief
Madeline was waving as she leaned on the
General's arm.

'' Look, look !" she whispered excitedly.
Look, Gerald! I suppose you will say I am
superstitious, but it seems to. me as if a
desperate enemy were waving a flag of peace
to me. I can't help feeling that perhaps we
shall be happy after all."

S> .. .Af*  

3v" ?(" Ts"  w

Mr. Smith was tried in Paris, and his
complicity in the thefts, though not in the
murders, of Lord Kingscliffe's son, the Honourable
Mr. Corrie, was clearly established without
any need of Madame de Lancry's testimony.
But he defended himself with such striking
ability, and so movingly described himself asa
guileless but devoted servant to a master
who had been kind to him, that he got off
with a sentence much lighter than he deserved :
five years' penal servitude.

Miss M'Leod gave a great deal of trouble at
the trial, when she was called in as an important
witness. As she would persist in speaking
of Smith as " that vile miscreant," and of the
late Mr. Beresford as " the unhappy murdered
gentleman," she had to be put down as a
person of weak intellect, incompetent to give
evidence. She has obtained another situation
now as housekeeper to an elderly widower
with children, to whom she is fond of relating
an interesting but flagrantly improbable story
of how her late employer fell a victim to the
treachery of his confidential clerk and the base
ingratitude of his daughter.

Blair's innocence was established, and a
subscription was got up for him on the Stock
Exchange, whose members don't wait for a
clear claim to be made on their liberality.

Gerald, having been beguiled on pretence of
giving Blair's address into going to the
office of the gentleman who was getting up
the subscription, was forcibly seized and led
in triumph into the sacred edifice, where he
was nearly pulled to pieces by an excited
throng of overgrown schoolboys, who all

wanted to shake his hand and tell him they
had been bosom friends of his father, and they
had always known the truth would come out
some day. After administering this vague
but warm-hearted congratulation, four of the
nearest and most enthusiastic, all of different
sizes and with no notion of keeping step,
hoisted him on their shoulders, and bumped
and jogged him in terrible triumph through
the building, to the accompaniment of vigorous
cheers from the rest.

Their enthusiasm did not exhaust itself in
this. There was, as Madame de Lancry had
predicted, a rush for the honour of obtaining
Gerald's modest services ; and he at once
obtained a situation as clerk, at a much higher
salary than his abilities would have commanded
without " influence."

Peggy knows that her father is dead, but
she has never heard how he died. General
and Madame de Lancry have settled down m
England ; they have a beautiful house near
Temple Lock, on the Upper Thames, and
they seem to get on better together. They
are interesting and entertaining people, and

can bear being out of each other's sight with
reasonable equanimity.

But as for Gerald and Peggy, they are
irreclaimable savages in this respect, for at
present there seems no prospect of their getting
beyond the uninteresting stage of being wrapt
up in each other.

