CHAPTER I.

' Please, master, there's a baby in the shed
along o' the carts."

It was a grinning Norfolk yokel, with a permanent
expression of Idiotic amusement on his
round face, who made this announcement to
Farmer Corbyn, putting his head shyly round
the door of the farm-kitchen, and looking
straight at the fire as he did so.

The farmer, who was at tea, turned slowly
and stared at him.

Go along for a fool, Sam, and tell yer daft
stories to some one else."

Sam half withdrew his sandy head, then
thrust it in again, looking stupidly from the

VOL. I. I

farmer to the farmer s wife, with wide-mouthed
intensity, which attracted Mr. Corby n's attention
; turning suddenly in his chair, he caught
his wife in the act of making signs to the lad.

Hallo, what's up, Molly ?"

"Oh, nothing, nothing! Go along, Sam,
with your silly stories."

** No, Sam ; stay ! I must get to the bottom
of this. What's all this bother and mystery
you're cocking up together ? What's "

Good gracious, John, you needn't put
yourself about like that, and all for nothing,
too ! You can run away, Sam."

Sam, come in here ! " roared the farmer,
cutting short his wife's conciliatory speeches by
a thump on the table.

The lad brought himself fearfully round the
door and into the room, casting a glance at his
mistress as if to ascertain that he was doing
right.

Now, what's all this noise about a baby ?
Where is it, and whose is it ? "

Please, master, it's a sitting' on a sack
under one of the hay waggons ; and I don't
rightly know whose is it ; but "

And again he turned his round eyes helplessly
but expressively towards the farmer's
wife. She was a bright-looking woman, some
years younger than her husband, to whom she
had not been long married. She began to
laugh at the angry wonder In the latter's face,
and put her hand upon his shoulder.

'* It Is all right, John ; there's nothing to be
angry about. Only a woman came knocking at
the door to-day  and  and asking the way, and
she seemed very tired ; so I asked her just to
step in and have a cup of tea, as she'd a little
child with her. I know you don't like strange
people coming into the house ; but she wasn't a
tramp, John ; she was quite respectably dressed
and well-spoken, though she was Irish, I think."

So I see this is what comes of your bringing
your tramps into the house, that they leave
their brats about the place for you to saddle
yourself with. You made a fuss with the little
wretch, I'll be bound  told the mother you
wished you had one like it, or something of the
sort  till your smart well-spoken tramp takes
it into her head that she can't do better than
get rid of her encumbrance at your door."

"In the shed, master," corrected Sam.

But perhaps she is coming back again ;
perhaps she has taken it away by this time.
The child may have strayed away from her
and got back here of its own accord ; it was
a sharp, pretty Httle thing," said Mrs. Corbyn,
enthusiastically, moving towards the door with
evident anxiety to see the child again.

Not likely ; the woman knows her business
! You stay here, Molly ; I'm not going
to have my house turned into a foundling
hospital. Sam shall take the brat to the
workhouse, and there the mother can fetch it
if she likes."

But it is such a dear little thing, John.
Do let me bring it in here for a moment ; it will
be so terribly cold after being left out there."

'' No, it won't be cold, missis, for Master
James was a-cuddlin' of it."

Master James ! "

"Yes," answered Sam. "When I asked
whose the baby was, he said it were his'n ; and
I left 'em in the shed among the cocks and
hens, and I come to tell you."

"All right!" said the farmer, slapping on

his hat and snatching up his stick in a threatening
manner.

Oh, don't hurt it, master ! " broke out Sam,
alarmed.

Mr. Corbyn was already on the door-step ;
and as Sam followed, with slow and clumsy
gait, his mistress said in a low voice 

Don't be a fool, Sam ; he won't hurt the
babe. He'll be the first to be kind to it, whatever
he may say. So hold your noise. Here,
let me pass ! "

She passed him, and followed her husband
out of the house, and over the ground in front,
heavy with October rains, towards the long
shed where the carts and waggons were kept.
It was dusk by this time;' but, before they
could see anything human, the exploring party
caught the sounds of the voices of children and
the shrieks of a fowl.

'' Fetch a light, Sam ! " said the farmer.

In the mean time, guided by the voices, he
made his way to the end of the shed nearest
to the cart-way, and, half under a scarlet
waggon, found, as Sam had said, a little girl
of about three years old trying to pull the

feathers out of an unfortunate chicken which
she held in her arms ; while a boy, some five
years older than herself, sitting beside her with
one arm round her chubby neck, did his best,
not to protect the chicken, but to protect his
tyrannical companion from the beak and claws
of the creature she was tormenting.

The sudden appearance of the farmer bending
over them in the dusk startled the children,
and made them look up. The little girl did
not let her victim go, but hugged it with
obstinate clutch, as she looked up at the big
man's hand stretched out to rescue her prize.
The boy threw his other arm round her, and
joined his hands round her neck.

Do-on't," cried the object of his chivalrous
attentions lustily, as she tried to free herself
from his protecting embrace.

'' Let her be, Master James ; she'll give ye
naught but scratches for yer pains, like the rest
of her kind," said the farmer.

At the sound of his gruff voice, the girl looked
up again, with curiosity, but without any fear.
Mr. Corby n stood aside to let the little light
there was left fall on her face, and as, against

the background of gloom In the shed, a pair
of great beaming dark eyes met his, looking
intently out of a cherub's face surrounded by an
untidy tangle of very fair hair, he stooped lower
and grunted.

Bless my soul. It's a pretty bairn ! " he
muttered, when he had finished his Inspection.
'' Here, Molly ! "

Turning, he found his wife beside him.

We'd better take the brat In, and give It
something to eat. These tramps' children are
always hungry ; I believe they train 'em to It.
Then we can see about packing It off," he added
sternly, repressing a look of triumph he saw on
his wife's face.

'* All right, John," said she; and she pushed
past him eagerly, and began her work of
mercy by releasing the chicken. The child
struggled with all her strength to retain her
prey, but did not scream ; her resentment took
the still more unamiable form of an attempt to
bite Mrs. Corby n's hand.

Now let her go. Master James, there's a
good boy ! I am not going to hurt her. She'll
catch her death of cold, sitting here in this

damp shed. Dear, dear, her poor little feet are
wet through. Come, let me take her In ; and
you can come In too, and have a piece of cake ;
and then you must run home to the Hall. Sir
Charles won't like your being out so late, and
I don't know what Miss Elizabeth would
say If she saw the state you are In. Good
gracious ! and you've got your best clothes on
too ! "

With a sudden wrench, more violent In this
new excitement than any she had yet used, she
parted him from his lady-love, and dragged him
up to be examined. An hour's sitting In the
mud had a good deal spoilt the appearance of
his black velvet knickerbockers, and he had
torn his scarlet stockings on a nail. Mrs.
Corbyn, who knew that that velvet suit, rusty-looking
as It was getting and short at the
wrists and knees, was meant to last some time
longer, was aghast.

Never mind, Mrs. Corbyn. Now they'll
have to get me trousers," said the boy, coaxingly,
lifting a pair of gentle blue eyes from the
damaged clothes to her face.

No ; they won't do that, my boy, If It's

only because you want to have them," said
she injudiciously.

And the blood flew to the boy s cheeks, ashe
turned from her, and ran after the little waif,
who had got upon her feet and was toddling
away.

'' I think you'd better run straight home,
Master James ; your clothes are so wet. I'll
take care of the child, you may be sure ! "

*' No, no ; I'm going to take her home with
me. She's going to be my sister, and to marry
me when she grows up  aren't you, Deldee ? "

But the young lady had sat down in the
mud again, outside the shed this time, and
showed no interest in the question, being
absorbed in watching the approach of the
lantern which Sam was bringing. When,
however, Mrs. Corby n took her up to carry
her indoors, she suddenly gave a short scream,
and stretched out two plump arms towards the
boy, kicking an intimation that she wanted to
be put down. He rushed responsively up to
where her little muddy boots were dangling
wildly from Mrs. Corbyn's arms; but the
farmer's wife was equal to the occasion.

Hush, hush ! Be a good girl, and you
shall have some bread-and-jam  nice 
; Fll take you indoors and give you
some beautiful bread-and-jam."

And the wild legs grew suddenly calm ;
and, repeating '' Bed-and-dam  booker 
! " the young lady instantly forgot her disconsolate
admirer, and let herself be carried
indoors and placed on a chair by the fire and
divested of her boots and socks, quite amiably.
The bright light of the fire and of the lamp
dazzled and amused her, and she sat blinking
her great brown eyes quietly, and curling up
her little pink toes in the warm glow of the fire,
in a manner which completed her subjugation of
the farmer, who sat opposite to her, with his
hands on his knees, wagging his head and
making strange sounds with his tongue, in a
weak attempt to render himself engaging to
one of her years. She stared at him gravely,
and, having been provided with the promised
delicacy, went on steadily attempting the feat
of eating the jam and leaving the bread behind.

Don't forget the other one," said the farmer
presently, jerking his head in the direction of

the end of the table, where James Otway stood
looking wistfully across the well-laden board at
his inconstant little lady-love.

The boy grew crimson, and shyly moved
away ; but the farmer's wife laid her kindly
hands on his shoulders, and brought him round
to the fire, where he at first refused refreshment,
but melted at the sight of a huge piece of
cake, and then stood by the baby s chair quietly
munching, and feeding her with bits of cake
when she had grown tired of her own .


'* How did you find her. Master James ? "
.asked the farmer.

I was in the pine-wood with Tip, when he
started off after a rabbit or something, and I
followed him round this way along the farmyard
wall ; and then I lost sight of him, and I
saw a woman carrying a baby. And she put
her into the shed, and she was crying ; and I
saw her put a letter into the little thing's
hand "

''A letter! Wh-ere is it ?"

'she's eaten it up; I saw her. I was
standing near the meadow-gate by the side of

the house, and the woman had her back to me.
Then Tip came running up, and began chivying
the ducks ; so I went through the gate after
him, and when I came back the woman was
gone, and the baby had torn up the letter, and
was swallowing the pieces. So I took the rest
away from her, all I could "

And what did you do with the pieces ? "

** I don't know. She was scratching me and
hitting me so  of course she didn't know any
better, poor little thing !  I didn't notice what
became of the letter. It was all in little
pieces."

*' We must look for those pieces, Molly, and
see if we can make anything out of them. You
see she did mean to leave the child  that's plain
enough for even you to believe. But I'll have
her hunted out, and made to answer for herself
that I will ! Leaving a poor babe like that
at a stranger's door ! The wench ought to be
ashamed of herself ! "

'' Well, let us find the rest of the letter first,
John, if we can. Perhaps she gave some explanation
there."

Explanation ! A child left in a shed before

the door of a simple little fool who has evidently
taken a fancy to It, explains itself. It
doesn't want no letter to show that the mother
is tired of her encumbrance, and thinks she's
done well In foisting it on a soft-hearted creature
like you. But she reckoned without your
husband, Mrs. Corby n, and I'm not ready to be
put upon in that way, if you are."

And the farmer rose from his chair, put on
his hat again, and walked out of the house,
taking with him the lantern which Sam had
brought. The little grave-faced lad watched
him closely, keeping one hand upon the baby-girl's
plump fist all the time. As soon as the
door closed upon her husband, Mrs. Corbyn
abandoned herself freely to her affectionate
instincts towards the child, and, taking the
rather unwilling mite into her arms, she half-smothered
it with kisses.

Mr. Corbyn wants to send her away," said
the boy's voice, quietly but apprehensively.

** Oh, I think I can persuade him to let me
keep her ! " said the young woman, cheerily.

'' Then, when you have children of your own
you won't care about her. You'll let her run

about by herself just as they do me, and only
bring her In to scold her."

Just hark at him preaching ! Why, I
declare, Master James, you're for all the world
like a parson already, with your grave face and
your grave ways ! "

I'm not going to be a parson."

Ah, that'll have to be as Sir Charles likes !
Time enough to think of that when you're ten
years older. You're but a child now, and you
don't know what's best."

I know what I like, and I'm not going to
be  parson ; I'm going to be a poacher."

Hush, hush ! What would your uncle say
if he could hear you ? Fancy a young gentleman
that's going to be a baronet wanting to bea
poacher ! "

'' Ashford says when I'm a baronet I can
do as I like. So, when my uncle dies, I shall
have trousers and be a poacher."

You shouldn't talk like that about your
uncle ; it isn't right. You wouldn't like him
to die, just so as you might do as you liked,
surely ? "

'' I don't know. My uncle isn't kind to me,

and Aunt Elizabeth Isn't kind  I hate Aunt
Elizabeth  and Aunt Eleanor hardly ever
speaks to me. If I could do as I liked, I would
go right away, and live in the woods and eat
roots and rabbits and never learn anything."

Bless the boy ! You live in the woods
pretty near now, I think." She was interrupted
bv her husband's voice shouting her, and the
light died out of her face as she said, " I must
go ; that's Mr. Corbyn calling. Perhaps the
woman has come back for her child. Take
care she doesn't fall into the fire, Master James.
Good-bye, my precious," she added to the baby-girl,
with a sounding kiss, before she threw her
apron round her head and ran out.

Her fears were groundless ; the baby's
mother had not returned. Her husband wanted
the help of her quick eyes in searching for the
tiny torn scraps of paper which were all that
remained of the letter which might perhaps
have thrown some light upon the pretty little
waifs history. After a long and careful search,
some half-dozen small pieces of paper, covered
with that puzzling writing of the very illiterate
which, examined in fragments, has about as

much meaning upside down as right side up,
were all they could find in the mud inside and
outside the shed. No ingenuity could arrange
a connected whole out of these scanty fragments
; yet very little imagination was apparently
needed to tell them a common, but sad
story ; " but a poor girl," '' wrong, but," " was a
gentleman," '' its father "  these words Could be
traced out among others with enough distinctness
to enable the farmer and his wife to guess
the rest. They had made this out by the light
of the lantern ; and as the woman examined
the last bit of paper, she looked up at her
husband appealingly.

Oh, John, let's keep her ! I'm sure shell
be a blessing to us ! " she urged, falling into the
usual formula.

A blessing ! I don't know so much about
that. She's got a temper of her own, for one
thing ; and, for another, she hasn't the pedigree
I should choose for a girl to bring up as my
own. A gentleman and a tramp ! Good stock
to come of ! Why, my girl, she'd never keep
out of gaol, coming of such parentage ! "

Oh, John, if you think she is in such danger

as that, then it's all the more reason we should
take care of her and try to keep her honest and
good. Come in and look at her again, John ;
and, look here  tomorrow morning we'll go to
the Vicar and ask his advice."

"A lot o' brood it'll be skin' the Vicar!
Think it out and act for the best '  that's what
he'll say. Oh, a thorough-going Protestant is
Mr. Bamber ! ' Make yer own religion and
stick to it, and save me a deal o' trouble '  that
might be Mr. B amber's motto ; and you can
talk him over easy too, you women with your
tongues. Oh, yes, a deal "

He would have gone on with his comments
on this  a favourite topic  if he had not been
interrupted by a shriek from his wife, who had
entered the farm-kitchen first. He quickened
his steps, and, entering, found her white and
trembling, leaning against the table. The child
was gone ! The farmer was as much disturbed
as his wife. Together they looked under the
table, in the cupboards, in every corner. Mrs.
Corbyn was at the door to search the passage
and the parlour, when her husband stopped
her.

VOL. I. 2

'' I have it, Molly ! The boy's gone too ;
he's taken her away. Let's have the fields
searched. They'll be hiding under some hedge ;
and the little one's voice is pretty sure to guide
us before long."

He's taken her home to the Hall with
him, I expect, John. I'll go straight there first,
while you and the lads hunt about, if you like ;
but I'm pretty sure I shall find them."

Are you now ? Well, then, I'll set Sam
to search the farmyard, and I'll go with you.
Look sharp, lass ; never trouble for to get your
best bonnet."

But, Instead of obeying, she stopped short,
with the light of an inspiration in her eyes.
The expression of her face was unmistakable ;
she had found out something or fancied that
she had.

Well, what is it, lass ? You've found a
mare's nest, I see ! " said her husband, encouragingly.


No, John, I haven't," she rejoined very
quietly ; '' but It'll be an odd thing If we find
the child at Waringham Hall."

'' Why ? What's the mystery ? Come,

you're burning to make a real romantic story-out
of this, I see, Molly ! Out with It."

It's nothing, John ; only that the questions
the woman asked me to-day were nearly
all about Waringham Hall, and the people
in it."

'' Like enough a gipsy  wanted to find out
the easiest way of robbing the place, and
whether there were plenty of silly maid-servants
about, whose fortunes she could tell."

*' But how many times am I to tell you,
John, that she wasn't a tramp no more than I
am ? Why, you might see that yourself from
the way the child was dressed ! "

Why, they were just common clothes."

'eyes, but not a tramp's odds and ends,
picked up anywhere from anybody, I know.
And I tell you it was not chance that brought
her to Waringham."

No ; it was a caravan, I'll lay. But what
have you got in your head now, Molly ? "

Nothing ; only I believe that letter would
have told us more than you think for. It might
have opened our eyes, John."

Well, it seems to have loosened our

tongues as it Is. Look here ; you be a sensible
lass, and don't go prating to Mrs. This and
Mrs. That all the silly fancies that come into
your head ; or, mind, if you do, off that baby
foes to the workhouse."

Then you will let me keep it, John ? "

*swell, I don't know ; I must just think
it over ; for, mind, it's a responsibility. A
child isn't a thing to be picked up and then
chucked away when you're tired of it, or when
you have something else you like better to take
its place. And, mind you, if I thought there
was anything in your wild fancies about Waringham,
I'd leave the child under a hedge
rather than take it in. But there's nobody
about the place but Mr. Johnson, the butler ;
and I'm sure he's not the sort of man "

But Mr. Johnson's not a gentleman, John
You know in the woman's letter it said *a
gentleman.' "

''He's a gentleman to the likes of her;
and, goodness, you wouldn't suspect Sir
Charles "

"No, no, of course, that's true ; I'd forgotten
there was only Sir Charles now'' Interrupted

his wife, hastily. '' Yes, how silly of me !
Of course there's nobody it could be."

'' Your wits have had a rare time of it woolgathering
to-day, Molly ; now let's have a little
sense for a change. Here we are at the gate ;
don't walk on the grass, you'll get your feet
wet. You ask for Mrs. Symes, and I'll wait
for you."

*' Heaven send the baby's safe, John,"
whispered she, slipping her hand through her
husband's arm as they made their way along
the narrow path under the thick-growing trees
of the park, over the wet leaves, through the
dense October night-mist.

Amen to that ! " said he, rather huskily.

CHAPTER 11.

Waringham Hall was a big, ugly white house,
built in the time of George the Third, and so
picturesquely placed among the oaks of the
park, with the ground sloping gently from the
front, that not all the efforts of the architect,
not even his freak of hiding away the principal
entrance round the corner of the house and
surmounting it with a hideous brick portico,
could in summer make it look quite the dreary
barrack his fancy had imagined. But, on this
cold October evening, with the mist rising
slowly up about the bare white walls and the
almost leafless oaks standing stiffly round,
stretching out gaunt crooked fingers above the
thick vapour that was gradually enshrouding
them, the Hall, with its meagre lights seen
dimly through the blinds of some half-dozen of

the windows, looked from the outside hardly
less cheerless than a family vault.

And the inside corresponded with the outside.
Commodious rooms half-warmed, half-lighted
 copies of Rubens and Murillo lining
the carved oak staircase, and one feeble lamp in
the hall below to see them by. Otway ladies
of the past in satin and diamonds, painted by
Reynolds and Gainsborough, on the walls ;
Otway ladies of the present, in dyed-stuffs and
cheap shoes, leading the dullest of lives within
the dreary hall. Corridors lined with unused
rooms, massive silver candlesticks with unlighted
candles in them, old furniture in the
taste of past generations  all spoke of dwindled
hospitality and declining fortunes.

The sonorous measured voice of a middle-aged
manservant was calling through the halls
and on the staircase, " Master James, Master
James ! " with subdued respectfulness which
threatened to turn into something quite different
when he should succeed in catching the young
gentleman in question. Getting no answer,
after having opened the doors of several rooms
and muttered, " I'll give it you when I do catch

you, my young gentleman ! " as he shook the
heavy curtains of the old bedsteads, he walked
downstairs again and listened for a few
moments at the door of the drawing-room. It
was only to find out whether his prey was
there ; Sir Charles and his two middle-aged
sisters never had anything to talk about interesting
enough to tempt the ear of the most
curious of servants ; and Johnson knew the
anatomy of every skeleton in the Waringham
cupboards as well as  well, as most people.
He could hear Miss Eleanor cough, he could
hear Miss Elizabeth's rather sharp voice and
Sir Charles's acquiescent grunt ; but, as the lady
did not seem to be scolding anybody, Johnson
concluded that her nephew was not there ; and
he returned to the servants' hall to join in the
discussion of the event of the day.

The Bishop and two or three of the gentlemen
of the neighbourhood had lunched at
Waringham Hall that day, on the occasion of
the consecration of a new burial-ground, and
Sir Charles and his sisters were talking it over
  that is to say. Miss Elizabeth Otway was
passing their guests in review, and her brother

and sister were listening with now and then a
modest comment.

Sir Charles was a small, slight, fair man of
about forty, with an aquiline nose and a retreating
chin, who was only saved from utter insignificance
by his upright bearing, due to twelve
years' inactive service in a line regiment. The
same features, which expressed nothing in particular
in his face, were full of significance in
the face of his sister Elizabeth, who was a few
years younger than himself, and who had in
her girlhood borne a reputation for good looks,
which the amount of admiration they excited in
the lymphatic gentlemen of the county scarcely
justified, but which strengthened her position
as leading spirit in the family circle. Her
manners were good, though imperious, her
complexion was still delicate, her fair hair still
pretty, her cold blue eyes still bright, and her
dress, in spite of the rigid economy they were
all forced to practise, was dainty with old lace
and jewelry Which had been in the family for
generations. She was not the eldest daughter
of the late Sir James Otway ; but she had
managed, in this as in other matters, to get

more than her fair share of such brood things
as came in her way. Sir Charles had always
been very submissive to her, and almost the
only point on which he had made a firm stand
against her superior judgment had been that
of his marriage ; in spite of all her attempts to
persuade or to entrap him into a match which
would supply that need of money which, as
times grew worse and tenants gave up their
farms, or required their rents lowered, got more
desperate every day, he obstinately persisted
in remaining bachelor.

o

Eleanor, the eldest of the family, was a
shrivelled and shrunken brunette, short, sallow,
and insignificant, who followed her sister's lead
dutifully in most things  spent a lazy life in
shivering and lounging from room to room
with a little woollen shawl round her shoulders,,
and in avoiding the fresh air, and who only
became plaintive over such misfortunes as five,
minutes* delay in the arrival of the mid-day
chop and glass of sherry with which her discriminating
fragility had to be sustained. She
had no manners to speak of, and her powers of
conversation were limited to trifling subjects

connected with religion of the uncompromising
sort ; but, for all that, she was far more popular
in the household than her sister.

They sat together by the small fire with
which the space round the worn white skin
hearth rug was economically half warmed, in the
little circle of light cast by a lamp and Sir
Charles's reading-candle. This oasis in the
two big, bare, lofty rooms, with its spindle-legged
sofa for Eleanor, a work-table with the
frayed silk cover neatly darned, a couple of
uncomfortable armchairs, a reading-table, a
footstool, a fire-screen, and a cushion for the
cat, was the only habitable spot in the expanse
of comfortless oloom. HuQe fires in both fireplaces
and an outlay in candles which would
have made the ladies shudder could hardly
have made the rooms cheerful, for the floor
was covered by a pale carpet strewn with a
pattern of faded garlands connected by curly
ribbons : a bleak-looking light-coloured paper,
stained in many places with damp, hung on
the walls, while the doors and wainscoting were
white, picked out with tarnished gilding. Old-fashioned
furniture of the slim and fracrile

order, much of it covered with worn wool-work
of ugly and conventional design by the busily
idle fingers of past generations of Otway ladies,
sprinkled the wilderness sparsely, arranged in
little groups of a table and two chairs, an ottoman
and two footstools, with a prim attempt
at inviting the tete-ct-tctes which never took
place there, for visitors instinctively made for
the oasis.

Don't you think the Bishop laughs and
talks politics rather too much for one in his
position, Elizabeth ? " asked her sister meekly.
** Mr. Bamber and Canon Gillingham both tried
to draw him into discussion of more serious
matters, and each time I noticed that he
avoided it."

Discussion with Canon Gillingham is such
a very serious matter, that I think wee may
forgive him, Eleanor."

Then Miss Elizabeth turned the subject.

Everything would have gone well but for
James. Really that boy is the most ungrateful,
unmanageable child I ever met, Charles ! "

'' What did he do 1 I thought he seemed
very quiet," said Eleanor.

*' Yes ; he was quiet as long as we wanted
him to be bright and talkative. But here, after
luncheon, when the Admiral had opened the
Pilgrims Progress and was looking over it
with him, when he carrie to the picture of
Christian going away, he said, ' And who are
all those unkind people laughing at him ? ' and
James answered quite loudly, ' I suppose they
are his uncles and aunts And of course it
was in a pause, when everybody was listening.
And it is just the sort of story that will get
about, and make people think we treat the
ungrateful, tiresome child badly. I meant to
have spoken to him about it when they where
all gone, but of course he knew he had been
naughty and ran out to play  in his best
clothes. He ought to be here now to say
good-night  it is half-past six. Charles, will
you ring ? "

Her brother obeyed, and Johnson appeared,
like a dignified ghost in the gloom beyond the
lamplight.

How Is It Master James Is not here,
Johnson ? "

I can't find him, ma'am. Susan saw him

going Upstairs with his arms full of sweets that
had been left from luncheon, that he had taken
off the dishes ; and now Mr. and Mrs. Corby n
have come to complain that he has stolen a
baby, ma'am."

Stolen a baby ? "

*' Yes, ma'am. I've been looking for them,
and they are all looking for them ; but we can't
find any trace of either of them, except some
jelly on the stairs."

'' Dear me, this is a very extraordinary
story ! " said Sir Charles, rising, glad to have
something to walk about for. " Where are
i\Ir. and Mrs. Corby n ? "

"In Mrs. Symes's room, sir."
Ask them to come into the study."
The library, which was devoted to Sir
Charles's use, was the only comfortable room
in the house. A screen round the fireplace
protected its owner's eyes from the sight of the
books, which he disliked ; and his armchair
had been used by him and his father before
him till all the buttons had come off and most
of the surface of the leather had been worn
away, while the horsehair stuffing stuck out in

several places and tempted James, when no
one was in the room, to pull It out to put on
the heroes for the birds to build their nests
with.

It was here that ]Mr. and ?sirs. Corby n told
Sir Charles the story of the appearance and
disappearance of the little waif. They had
scarcely finished it when Johnson knocked at
the door and announced respectfully, but with
suppressed excitement 

'' We've found them, sir, both together, up
in the bachelors' wing ! "

Sir Charles led the way through the hall,
telling the farmer and his wife to follow, and
calling to his sisters as he passed the drawing-room
door. He had caught the excitement ;
and, snatching the candles from Johnson's
hands, he charged up the stairs at the head
of the party, with as much enthusiasm as if
he had been leading a forlorn hope, spilling the
wax at every step, and at last upsetting one
candle with a crash into the hall below. Johnson,
who had been in the army himself, and
who was as active as his master, except when
in the presence of '' the family," had run round

Up the back staircase to warn the rest of the
household  all assembled to see the baby
Master James had run away with  of the
approach of the master of the house. They
were gathered round the door which led to the
bachelors' wing, a dusty, deserted old corridor
where no bachelors were ever found now
except among the rats and mice who picked
up but a poor living among the worm-eaten
furniture and mouldy hangings of the rooms
which had once held keen sportsmen, mead
lovers, charming younger sons  dead now,
most of them  and the rest  fogeys.

Mrs. Symes, the housekeeper, had selfishly
drawn the bolt of the outer door, under pretence
of not dlsturblnof the child, who was
asleep ; and she and the cook were standing
in the third bedroom, watching the little waif,
who was lying on a lusty old settee, when
Johnson's voice calling to them that Sir
Charles was coming, made them hurry out and
withdraw the bolt, just as the master of the
house and his panting suite came up.

Well, where is the lost princess, Mrs.
Symes ? "

'' In the third room, sir," answered the
housekeeper, who was a tall, thin, melancholy
woman, always regretting the bygone glories
of the family at the time when she had just
entered their service as kitchen-maid, though
her slowness of thought, speech, and action and
her lugubrious aspect would have been as much
out of place in her present post in the good old
times of Waringham wealth and hospitality as
they were In harmony with it now that the tide
of fortune had turned against the Otway.

She led the way with her own candle and
the one Sir Charles had been dropping about,
which she respectfully relieved him of, to the
third of the row of doors which ran along the
left-hand side of the corridor, the right-hand
side being occupied by windows overlooking
some out-buildings and the stable-yard.

'' Master James Is with her, sir, and he
won't let anybody touch the child. She's
asleep, sir," continued the housekeeper, as she
pushed the door open and ushered her master
into a mouldy-smelling bedroom, the boards of
the floor of which rattled under the tread. The
mildewed paper was in places peeling from the

VOL. I. 3

outer wall ; the death-watch ticked in the wainscoting
; what little furniture had been left in
the disused room looked doubly old and mean
and worn, seen by the dim and flickering light
of the candles held over the low old-fashioned
cushioned seat on to which James the kidnapper
had helped his prize to climb. He had
thought, in a vague child's way, that, if he could
manatee to brings her unseen to this old corridor
where nobody ever came, he could keep her
there till she grew up, and then he could marry
her, and they could go away together somewhere
 to some wood, or to sea, and they
could take Tip, the fox-terrier, with them. He
could easily bring her food from the pantry,
where Johnson, who scolded him more fiercely
than anybody, but who was the only person
who ever treated him to a little harmless spoiling,
might make a fuss about his depredations,
but somehow always forgot to lock him out.
And now that nasty old griffin  this was Mrs.
Symes  had hunted him out, and come creeping
down the corridor, and he had listened
with a fast-beating heart while she opened each
creaking door. He had blown out his candle,

drawn a curtain over the baby-girl, and hidden
himself under the bed. But it was in vain ;
the rasping, 'come out; I see you!" so familiar
to children's ears, had been followed by the
grip of a strong bony hand upon his nearest
leg ; and he had been dragged out in a very
inconsiderate manner, and forced to give an
account of himself and the baby, whom the
housekeeper's sharp eyes had in the mean time
discovered.

Now, crouched beside his treasure In the
presence of his uncle, with his Aunt Elizabeth
and the avenging Corbyns in the background,
he felt that the end of all things was come.
His Imagination for horrors, like that of all
children who are much neglected or little loved,
was preternaturally keen ; and, after one look
at the awful group, he hid his face in the dusty
curtain he had torn down to put over the baby,
and waited without a sound for the tempest.

But none came, for nobody was thinking
about him. Sir Charles bent down over him
without taking any notice of him, and looked
at the sleeping child. Then he took one of the
candles from Mrs. Symes, and looked again.

' By Jove ! " said he at last. The child s
beauty had impressed him just as strongly as it
had the farmer.

"She's a picture  isn't she, sir ? " said Mrs,
Symes.

Here, Elizabeth, Eleanor  come and look [
I never saw such a  by Jove ! " he repeated,
unable to find adequate words.

His younger sister stepped forward, and
was forced, without much enthusiasm however,
to admit that the child was pretty. Mr
Corbyn's gruff voice broke in.

Yes ; if she's as fair in her ways as she is in
her looks, we shan't have no cause to regret
we took her in  shall we, sir ? "

Took her in ! Why, it was my nephew
here who took her in ! You found her first,
didn't you, James ? "

Yes, uncle ; I found her in the shed, and I
was with her all the time. Oh, do let me keep
her, Uncle Charles ! "

'' What do you say to that, Mr. Corby n ? "

I say, sir, that those ought to have her
that's best able to provide for her ; and if
Master James is better able than me to take

the responsibility of a young woman's bringing
up, why, then let him have her by all means ! "
said the farmer, doggedly.

'' Well, what if I take the responsibility for
him ? "

Charles, are you dreaming ? '* cried Miss
Elizabeth, so sharply that the child woke up,
and, frightened by the crowd of strange faces,
began to cry lustily.

Mrs. Corbyn rushed forward ; but the two
men, both grown eager and rather angry, stood
in the way, still leaning over the child and
looking at it and at each other.

You said you'd send her to the workhouse,
Mr. Corbyn!" cried James's shrill, childish
voice. He had taken courage from his uncle's
so unexpectedly taking up his cause.

Look here, Corbyn ; I've taken a fancy
to the child too," said Sir Charles, with some
excitement. " Let her decide for herself.
Whichever of us she turns to of her own
accord shall keep her."

** Charles ! " broke in his sister again ; but
he paid no attention to her.

"Well, I'm only a rough man, and she'd goto

you if it was only for yer watch-chain, Sir
Charles. Let my wife try against ye."

'* No, no ; of course she would go to the
woman."

"Well, let Miss Elis " began the farmer,.

with a twinkle in his eye.

But, disgusted by her brother's freak and
by his want of courtesy to herself, that lady
had swept out of the room.

*' Well, she shall decide between you and
your wife, and me and my nephew."

Of course she'll go to the gentlefolks,
sir.

Well, we'll see ! I think you said you
believed her father was a gentleman, while
you know her mother was of much lower rank.
Then this trial is perfectly fair, and will prove
on which side her sympathies lie," said Sir
Charles, who was by this time as much in
earnest as the farmer.

The child had left off crying, and was
sitting up and staring at them very solemnly,,
with one chubby hand to her mouth and the
other buried in the old curtain, with which
her small admirer had covered her to keep

her warm. Mrs. Corbyn knelt down on one
side of her, putting her kind good-natured face
coaxingly near to that of the baby-girl ; her
husband stood behind her and nodded and
clucked in token of good-will. The little waif
turned to them at once and chuckled and
clapped her hands, without seeming to notice
the baronet down on his knees on the other
side of her, with his nephew standing by him,
watching her breathlessly. Already a pair of
motherly arms were closing round her, and the
farmer was drawing himself up in triumph,
when some impulse, some sound, some instinct
no one knew what  made the child turn, seethe
other two figures, and stretch out her baby-arms,
not to her old friend James, but to Sir
Charles. He was too much pleased to speak.
Snatching her up in his arms, he rose, and was
silent a moment, with the little creature against
his breast, before he said very quietly to the
farmer 

** I've won her quite fairly, Corbyn  have
I not?"

"Well, I'm not saying you haven't. Sir
Charles. But, look, sir  if it's you that's

going to charge yourself with her bringing up,
you'll want somewhere to put her; and won't
you put her with us ? You see we've taken
a fancy to her pretty face and her pretty little
ways, and we'd be kind to her, you may be
sure. Then, when she's old enough to enter
your service, she can come to the Hall, sir, or
we'll look after her still, just as you may
please."

The baronet hesitated, looking down at the
child, who was biting his waistcoat buttons and
clawing him with sticky fingers.

"Well, Corbyn, we'll see about that tomorrow,"
said he, after a minute's consideration.


I hope you'll decide to let us have her,
sir," said the farmer's wife, with a winning,
timid, pleading look into the baronet's face, as
she followed her husband out.

Then Sir Charles walked out of the room
and alone the corridor and down the staircase
with his burden, leaving the housekeeper to
make a slow lunge at James, who eluded her
and ran away to his own room. The dinner-hour
drew near, and still Sir Charles did not

leave the library, where he had shut himself up
with his prize. Just as the ladies were leaving
the drawing-room to dress, their brothers
voice, calling them hastily, sounded through
the hall. They came to the library, the door
of which was open. The baby was sitting in
his armchair, with his watch and chain and
seals for playthings ; and Sir Charles, his face
flushed with excitement, was standing over her
with a dusty oil-painting in his hand.

'* Look here, Elizabeth  isn't it marvellous ?
Look at that child and then at this ! "

The picture was that of a smooth, smiling,
elaborately dressed child, an aunt of theirs,
painted when she was four, by Sir Thomas
Lawrence. The likeness was undeniable ; the
silky fair hair, almost flaxen, the large velvety
brown eyes, a quaint good humour in the
expression  all were attributes of the portrait
strikingly reproduced in the living child before
them. Miss Elizabeth looked startled and
uneasy, and glanced up in her brother's face
to see if he shared the suspicion which had
flashed through her own mind. The aunt
Avhose picture Sir Charles held had married

badly and died, leaving a son who had been
for years a disgrace to the family. A scamp
of the worst kind, dishonest as well as
dissolute, he had been shipped off again and
again to this place and that by his relatives,
and returned each time, smiling, affectionate,
and unwelcome, to beg, borrow, and steal in
every ingenious way that a well-born vagabond
can. Nobody had heard of him for some years
now, and his family were beginning to hope
that they never would again. No deed was
too bad, no desertion too heartless, for him to
have committed ; and as his cousin Elizabeth
looked earnestly from the child to the picture,
she faltered instinctively 

'' Lindley Fielding ! '*'

Sir Charles started and turned to her sharply,

Nonsense, Elizabeth ! He never was in
Ireland."

'' You can't be sure. We haven't heard of
him for a long time now."

"Why, I should have been sure to have
heard something of his doings when I was
quartered at Sligo with my regiment, if he had
been there ! Lindley generally manages to

make his presence known within a hundred
miles or so of wherever he may happen to be.'

*' Well, send the child away somewhere ;
don't let the Corbyns take care of it. I could
not rest while it was in the neighbourhood ; it
makes me quite uncomfortable to look at it,
Charles."

You will get used to the sight of it," said
he, with unusual decision. '* It is only a fancy
of yours about Lindley, and I tell you I have a
superstitious feeling about keeping the little
creature. I believe  Heaven knows what I
don't believe about it  perhaps it will bring
luck back to the Otwayss. Yes, yes, I am as
silly as a moonstruck nursemaid about this, I
know. I'll do all in my power to find out its
mother  the woman who left it  whoever she
may be "  he paused, with his eyes fixed on
the child  " and I'll have her brought up  asa
lady."

Not here," said his sister quietly, "unless
you wish Eleanor and me to leave Waringham.
You cannot expect your sisters to remain under
the same roof with a creature picked up "

No, no, of course I did not mean here''

he explained, falling into his usual tones of submission.
" I must find some proper persons to
take charge of her, and "

'' And what will people say, Charles ? "

I don't much care. I have made up my
mind about this as firmly as  as if you had
made it up for me, Elizabeth. I tell you the
child became a sort of religion to me from the
moment she put her chubby little arms round
my neck."

"And have you any idea what this new
religion will cost you ? How will you afford
to dress this religion and educate it and pay for
its maintenance with ' proper persons ' who will
make proper charges for this sort of undertaking
? "

I don't know ; I must find some way.
Perhaps I'll sell Potheen ; I hardly ever ride
now."

And what are you going to call her ? She
has no name ; perhaps you propose giving her
yours  ours ! "

No, no ! I must think about that. I
think she might do without one for a year or
two, and that will orlve time to think it over.

Of course she must have a Christian name ;
that will be simpler."

Indeed, the child relieved him of that difficulty
herself, for, before the discussion between
him and his sister about her had lasted many
more minutes, she began to rub her eyes restlessly
and to cry pettishly, lisping out 

Deldee go by-bye, Deldee go by-bye 
Deldee tired ! "

That's it, that's her name!" said Sir Charles,
triumphantly, as the dinner-bell rang. '' Her
name is Deldee. It is short for something ; we
can find out what tomorrow."

His sister, finding him obstinately bent on
his purpose, as he always was on the rare occasions
when he did make up his own mind, left
the library without waiting to hear his careful
directions to Johnson to take " the young lady "
to Mrs. Symes, and to tell her to have a fire
lighted in the old nursery, and to take care that
the cot was well aired.

Perhaps it was lucky that Miss Elizabeth
did not stay to hear these directions.

When, after dinner, the ladies left their
brother, as usual, sitting in solitary state over

the wine which was not likely to tempt him to
injudicious indulgence, he only waited until he
heard the drawing-room door close upon them
before he rose, left his usual fascinating after-dinner
occupation of staring with vacant eyes
over the shaded lamp and two pairs of flickering
candles at the portraits of his ancestors and
ancestresses high above him in the gloom on
the walls, wondering what they did with their
money to leave him so little  and, slipping very
quietly, like a truant schoolboy, up the stairs,
he paused at the nursery-door to listen to a
sound which moved him strangely  the prattle
of children. The door was ajar ; he could lookin
without being seen. The fire, which was
never lighted for Master James, was burning
brightly enough to show the boy, in his nightshirt,
sitting up in bed to talk to Deldee, whose
cot was drawn, by his desire, close up to the
side of his bed. He was apparently telling hera
story, and she kept interrupting him with
sleepy and entirely unintelligible comments.
At last he stopped, and, leaning over the rail
of the cot to examine her face, he said gravely 
'rand I think I'll tell you the rest tomorrow,

Deldee, for I don't believe you're
listening."

She made no answer ; and the boy just put
his hand out and gently patted the one chubby
little fist which was lying on the counterpane,
and then he lay down on his pillow and curled
himself up for sleep. And Sir Charles went
downstairs again and slipped quietly into the
dining-room for a few moments before opening
and shutting the door again loudly to proceed
to the drawing-room.

But his guilty action had been witnessed by
the butler, who had not found it difficult to keep
out of sight in the ill-lighted hall, from which
he had seen his master creeping noiselessly
downstairs.

'' It is the oddest thing I ever see," said he
that evening, in the servants' hall, where this
unheard-of event naturally excited plenty of
comment and some whispering, In which Mr.
Lindley Fielding's name was mentioned with
a 'hush!" after It, "that Sir Charles, who
seemingly can't abide children, by the way he
treats Master James, his own brother's son and
an orphan, should take such a fancy to this
cast-off child of a tramp."

*' But then the Httle thing Is so pretty. It's
as near what one thinks the angels are when
children die young and go straight up to heaven
as anything I ever see In a picture-book," said
one of the housemaids sentimentally.

'well, what I say Is," said Johnson, doggedly,
" It Isn't fair on Master James."

Master James Is so rough when he's not
shy ; he Isn't a taking sort of child," argued the
cook.

'' But he's oot a stood heart, for all that.
Look how he's took to this little ,
wild creature, that's
being petted and made much of, while he, that's
the heir and ought to be everybody. Is just
scolded and snubbed b} everybody  even us.
Why, it goes to my heart to see it  that it
does ! And all because he happens to be a bit
shy and awkward, while this picked-up vagrant
has the cheek of Old Harry! It's a shame,
that's what It Is  a shame ! "

But if they had been able to see into the
coming years and the events which these would
bring to Warlngham Hall, even Johnson would
not have given all his pity to " Master James."

CHAPTER III.

Sir Charles's unusual burst of energy lasted
long enough for him to carry his point with
regard to the education of the child so strangely
brought under his roof, but not long enough for
him to pursue his inquiries into her antecedents
very far. It did, indeed, suddenly occur to him,
late in the evening of the day after that of her
unexpected arrival, that he ought to try to find
out her mother ; but he put it off in his usual
dilatory fashion for two or three days, so that
when at last he caused an inquiry to be made
in the neighbourhood as to the appearance and
disappearance of the woman, it was too late for
him to hope to track her without taking more
energetic measures than he was ready to use.
Deldee, who retained that form of name which
some ingenious person guessed to have been

VOL. I. 4

originally Geraldine, could give very little help
in solving the mystery about herself. She cried
at first from time to time for 'mamma," but
was consoled with ease which said little for her
constancy. Indeed, she gave very few signs of
possessing any of the qualities usually called
good. She was impatient, exacting, wilful,
greedy, and absolutely savage when thwarted.
But she was so pretty, so bright, and had such
fascinating, coaxing little ways, that it required
strength of mind such as only Miss Elizabeth,,
of all the household at Waringham, possessed,
to resist her. But for his sister. Sir Charles
would have braved comment by keeping the
child at the Hall. He was miserable at parting*
from her ; and when she uttered a sharp scream
and clung to his coat as he gave her a last fond
hug before leaving her in the charge of the two
excellent ladies who had undertaken the responsibility
of her physical and mental wants,
it needed all their remonstrances and their too
true assurances that she would be consoled as
soon as he was out of sight to prevent him from
taking her home again with him.

The Misses Gretton, who had been recommended

by the Vicar of Warlngham as the
very persons for such a task as that of turning-the
wilful waif into a model young lady with all
the latest improvements, were two middle-aged
sisters who had formerly kept a fashionable
ladies' school at a well-known seaside town on
the south coast, but who had retired early
owing to the ill-health of the younger, and
settled in their birthplace, Copsley, a dull little
town in Suffolk. They had made many objections
at first to the unsatisfactory parentage
of their proposed charge. But the sight of a
back to be drilled and toes to be turned out
was to the elder Miss Gretton as the sound of
the bugle to the old war-horse, and before
Deldee had been many minutes in their
presence both sisters had yielded to the wonderful
charm the little creature exercised on
almost every one with whom she came in
contact.

"Why, I believe it is a fairy!" exclaimed
Miss Emma Gretton, the younger, at last.

And that speech, agreeing so well with Sir
Charles's superstitious convictions concerning
his pet, won his heart, and. satisfied him that

.v'.;?0J5

he had done right in trusting Deldee to the
care of these gentle ladies, who, when their first
reluctance was once overcome, promised faithfully
to do their best with her.

They kept their word  to the unruly
Deldee's cost. The vigilance which had kept
twenty-five budding women in order at once
being now all concentrated upon this solitary
mite, she was drilled and instructed and improved
with a watchful yet kindly strictness
which subdued the impulsive manners and kept
under the wild spirit, until, after some years
passed in their care, no trace of the naughty
baby was to be seen in the shy, reserved, and
studious girl that, at twelve years old, she had
become.

During all those nine years Sir Charles
never failed  except on one occasion, when a
slight seizure of some sort which frightened
the household by a threat of paralysis, confined
him to the house for several days  to walk or
ride three or four times a week the seven miles
which lay between Waringham, just within the
borders of Norfolk, and Copsley, which was in
Suffolk ; though the prim and shy girl with

pigtail and schoolroom apron had lost, for the
time at least, a good deal of the charm of the
fascinating and forward baby.

During the very first week after Deldee's
departure from Waringham, Master James made
his appearance on the top of the high garden
wall of the dull-looking old house in Copsley,
just at the moment when the girl, fearless and
mischievous as usual, having escaped into the
narrow and now flowerless strip of ground, was
amusing herself by trying to take away a bone
from a big dog that was chained up there.
Just as James, untidy, breathless, and covered
with mud, slid down the wall and ran up her.
Miss Gretton appeared at the back drawing-room
window, and, not unnaturally mistaking
him for some undesirable acquaintance Deldee
had picked up before her rise in life, she hurried
the poor boy through the house and out at
the door without listening to his explanations.
Tired and mortified, he got back to Waringham,
partly on his weary feet, partly by the help of
a friendly cart. On his way he came to a
grand resolution ; and next morning, when Sir
Charles had mumbled through prayers in his

usual inaudible tones, his nephew made a
nervous rush at him as he was leaving the
room, and jerked out, in a choking voice 

'' Uncle Charles, I found her  I brought
her here ! Oughtn't they to let me see her ?
Please make them."

His uncle had stopped and looked down at
him. He was not fond of the boy ; he had
had a curious prejudice against him from the
very day when, two years ago, he had taken
the boy to Waringham on the death of his
younger brother, Master James's father; but
his sense of justice told him that there was
reason in his nephew's words. Once a week
thenceforward James was driven over to
Copsley to eat cake and enjoy Deldee's society
in the stiff drawing-room, in the stately presence
of her two guardians, who thought him a very
gentlemanly boy, but rather old-fashioned in his
manners. But when the two ladies went to the
seaside every year, Sir Charles took it into his
head to ask them to take his nephew also ; and
those holiday-weeks which the children spent
together were a golden time for both of them.
Then all the malice and mischief which seemed

to have been uprooted by the Gretton regime
sprang into new life, and Deldee tyrannized
over him and thumped him and pinched him
when he annoyed her, and made it up again
with a violence almost equally aggressive, in a
way which would have much shocked her
guardians could they have guessed that the
beautifully correct manners their pupil observed
towards her companion when in their presence
were instantly put off as soon as their confiding
backs were turned. And James worshipped
her dutifully ; and when he went to Winchester
he being then thirteen and she eight  he
told her that she was getting old enough to
think seriously of things, and that she must
look upon him as her future husband. Deldee
was quite ready to do that  too ready, James
thought  for he could not but feel that the
promptness with which she nodded assent, over
a piece of almond rock which she was eating,
to all the grave propositions he was making to
her, denoted a lightness of mind which spoke
ill for her constancy.

*' You are a giddy girl, Deldee ! " said he,
patronizingly. " You don't understand things

half as well as I did when I was your age.
But then, of course, you're a girl ; and that
makes the difference. Well, I must speak to
you about it when you are older."

But alas for human consistency ! At Winchester
the lonely boy found himself In a new
world, among new occupations, new pleasures.
His sturdy clumsy form grew straight, supple,
and athletic in the playground, his facility in
learning made his progress in the school
brilliant, while his gentle, easily led disposition
gave him dangerous popularity. When he
returned to Waringham, at each successive
vacation taller, handsomer, and with a better
report of his college successes, he did indeed
still submit fondly to Deldee's caprices and continue
to remind her that she was to marry him
when she grew up ; but at each return there
was a shade more sense of fun in his proposal
and a shade more seriousness in her acceptance
of it  until, when he, a big, bright, good-looking
lad of seventeen, took leave of her In
affectionate, but most lively fashion, on the
occasion of her going to France to be *' finished,"
she  a shy slim girl of twelve, with fair hair

Still in pigtail and flashing eyes of velvety
brown, that promised to do their share of
mischief some day  grew silent and awkward,
and tried to withdraw her cheek from the
matter-of-course kiss which he, grown bold
enough now, gave her in the very presence of
the Misses Gretton.

'' You are not to forget that you are engaged
to me. Don't let me hear of your flirting with
some fellow at a French lycde' he found an
opportunity of whispering to her presently, ashe
pressed her red, bony girl's hand, and gave
her a long sentimental look with his good-humoured,
gentle blue eyes.

And he had not the least idea of the effect
his tender, half-jesting, half-serious speech had
upon the passionate, imaginative child-woman.
She remained in France four years, having
been provided, at the suggestion of Miss
Gretton, with a surname. After having considered
the matter carefully for some days. Sir
Charles  without mentioning the fact to his
sisters  had given her one of the family names,
and sent her to school at St. Denis as Miss
Geraldine Lindley. She expressed some surprise

on learning that Gretton, which she had
used as her own, was not her name ; but, having
been told long ago that she was the orphan
daughter of two dear friends of Sir Charles,
this fact awoke no suspicion in her mind. She
did not come to England for any holidays  this
had been Insisted upon by Sir Charles's sister
Elizabeth, who grew fiercer every year In her
resentment against the girl who had taken up
so much of her brother's love, and, far worse,
of his money. This he agreed to the more
readily, as it put off the approaching day when
the girl he loved as his own child must make
the terrible discovery of her own position. He
had not reckoned for this difficulty when an
irresistible impulse of tenderness and admiration
had made him adopt the beautiful little
waif and treat her so generously ; when it first
occurred to him, It was characteristic of him
that he set about evading It. In spite of the
wise objections of the Misses Gretton, he insisted
that she was to be kept In entire Ignorance
of the truth, that she was not to know
that he himself lived near, and that his sisters
were never to be mentioned to her. She was to

be made to believe that he came from a distance
to see her. James was bound to be equally-silent
; and as, besides being by nature honourable,
he knew Deldee was not to be trusted
with a secret, he was discreet ; and, though she
knew his home was with Sir Charles, she did
not know where that home was, for she had
no recollection of Warlngham Hall. To all
the remonstrances of the Misses Gretton, Sir
Charles replied that he would break It to her
some day  that he had a plan. But they
-shrewdly guessed that that plan was to leave the
story untold as long as possible, and then to
shift the telling of It on to some one else's
shoulders.

And as, during those four Inquiring, self-tormenting,
transition years of a girl's life from
twelve to sixteen, she was surrounded by
people who could tell her nothing about her
parentage and her prospects, she lived In
happy Ignorance of her own history ; while a
certain natural reserve and distinction of manner,
which Increased the effect of her beauty
and accomplishments, gave rise to a belief
among her companions that she was ' an

heiress "  a belief which in time naturally
affected her also, and seemed the reasonable
explanation of the semi-conventual care which
had guarded her childhood. At last, as Miss
Gretton took no notice of the suggestions in
her old pupil's letters that she would like to
know something more than had been told her
about her parents and position, the girl wrote
more boldly, begging Miss Gretton to let her
know whether certain small extravagances in
dress in which she had indulged were justified
by her prospects. The old lady showed this
letter gravely to Sir Charles, who said he
would reply to it. But he had not the heart
to rebuke her, to warn her ; he merely wrote
to say that, in answer to her very natural
questions, it was time for her to know that her
father had been a brother-officer of his own
who had not been very well off, but had been
able to leave her properly provided for; he
himself was her trustee and guardian, and there
was no need for her to stint herself in any of
a young lady's little wants and whims.

So that, while Sir Charles and his sisters
lived with strict economy which bordered upon

niggardliness at Waringham, the little vagrant
picked up In a shed held among her companions
the envied position of a rich girl with whom
money was no object. Happily this elevation
was not attained at great cost, for the school
at St. Denis, though good, was not a fashionable
one. To meet the expense of Deldee's
education, Sir Charles, unknown to his sisters,
to whom he understated the cost of it, had sold
one of his farms and cut down some timber on
a remote part of the estate ; but, during the
thirteen years between the child's adoption and
her return from France, no day passed without
some cutting allusion from Elizabeth Otway to
her brother's criminal philanthropy, which would
keep a vagrant In comfort while his sisters
almost starved. If they starved, however, he
starved too ; and he might have pointed out to
her that they might all have lived more comfortably,
if she would only have consented to
reduce their retinue of Idle servants and the
number of horses In the stable to their modest
needs. But there were traditions to be kept
up In the face of poverty, of discomfort, of
disunion. And so, though the days of Waring-ham

hospitality were gone by, there were two
discontented servants to do the work of everyone,
and the coach-house was stored with big
barouche, and with dog-cart, waggonette, and
phaeton rotting in the damp and darkness, now
that there were no guests to drive to meet or to
battue, when one small brougham would have
amply fulfilled all the requirements of the
family.

When Deldee had been away two years
and James was nineteen, he began to give
his uncle some uneasiness by growing rather"
** wild," and at last announced his disinclination
to enter the Church, for which, that being the
only profession in which Sir Charles had strong
interest, he was intended. Argument, persuasion,
warning followed, and at length the young
man consented to be placed with a private
tutor in order to prepare himself for the only
profession in which, as his uncle assured him,
he had any chance of rapid advancement.

But two years later, just before Deldee s
expected return, and just before he had completed
his twenty-first year, a fresh lit of mad
impatience against his intended career seized

him ; he expressed a restless wish to travel, to
see something more of life and the world than
the rigid economy want of money had forced
upon him allowed him to do. And Sir Charles,
to keep him quiet, resolved to entrust him
with a long-delayed task which he had set
himself  to go to Ireland and entrust a solicitor
he had formerly known, now living in Dublin,
with the task of trying to trace out the parentage
of Deldee. Certain vague suspicions,
which had strengthened as the years went by,
that the child had not been left by accident
in the neighbourhood of Waringham Hall, had
increased his wish to solve the mystery which
hung about her ; and the letter which James
carried to Mr. Massey, a man in whom Sir
Charles had reason to place the utmost confidence,
contained the most explicit instructions
and the clearest indications as to the nature of
his suspicions.

James took leave of his uncle and of his
aunts, and started on his mission In the beginning
of June. As he stood in the hall, ready
for his journey, with the excitement of a wish
about to be realized lighting up his face, tall,

Stalwart, handsome, Sir Charles was forced to
feel, for almost the first time, a glow of pride
in his heir. With cold Elizabeth, who worshipped
success, James had long since become
a somewhat unresponsive darling ; the sensitive
nature could not forget the early snubs inflicted
by the hard one.

*when Deldee comes back, I shall have
a handsome pair of young people about me,"
said Sir Charles to his nephew, in a voice too
low for the ladies to hear.

'' Deldee ! Oh yes, she is coming back
this summer, isn't she ? Tell her from me
that "

"Why, you can give your messages yourself.
You are only going to be away a month,
and she does not return till late in August."

Oh, ah, yes, I had forgotten ! " said the
young man, with a moment's constraint. xA.nd
he turned to his aunts, and lightly told them
to expect him with a brogue and a shillelagh.

But something in his tone had struck Sir
Charles ; and, when the young fellow had given
both his aunts an unusually affectionate kiss
and pressed his uncle's hand stedfastly without

looking him In the face, and had driven off
with unaccountable moisture in his blue eyes,
the baronet started forward with an alarmed
expression of face, and called him back. But
James did not or would not hear. And Sir
Charles stepped absently back into the hall
just as his younger sister was saying 

There is the stamp of success about that
boy. I believe he will bring the old days back
to Waringham."

But Eleanor said, in her thin querulous
voice 

'' I hope he may, I m sure, Elizabeth. But
he has poor dear James's weak mouth, and, fora
young man destined for the Church, his views
are by no means serious."

** So much the better ; he will look beyond
his flock. James will be a bishop, and for that,
you know, he must be a man of this world as
well as a pilot to the next."

Eleanor was too submissive to her sister
even to look shocked by this speech ; but it
hurt her, as the hard and sometimes flippant
remarks of her clever sister often did. Sir
Charles listened to them both, but went into

VOL. I. 5

the library without any comment on their
words.

They received letters from James, telling
of his safe arrival in Dublin, and of his fulfilment
of his mission so far at least as the
delivery of the letter to the lawyer was concerned.
He knew what the subject of that
letter was, and had been instructed by his uncle
to supplement it by replying to such questions
concerning Deldee and her first appearance at
Waringham as Mr. Massey might think fit to
put to him. But of this part of his task he said
nothing, nor did the solicitor when he acknowledged
the receipt of the letter and promised
Sir Charles to do his utmost in the matter.

Then there was a pause. James was a bad
correspondent, and they were not much surprised
at not hearing from him ; but, as Ireland
was in rather a more disturbed state than usual,
they began, after three weeks' silence, to be
rather uneasy about him.

'' I dare say we shall not hear a word until
he suddenly turns up brimming over with
adventures, and mad either for or against Irish
patriots," said Elizabeth.

*' Do you think it was quite wise to let him
ego to a place like Ireland at such a time as this,
considering how rash and headstrong young
men are, and how they will rush into danger
for the sake of excitement ? " asked Eleanor,
nervously. " Supposing he should get into
mischief ? "

Sir Charles fidgeted and pulled his
moustache.

"If young men want to get into mischief,
they can make it for themselves anywhere ;
and, if a lad of twenty-one can't take care of
himself, I hardly think he is worth taking care
of," said the baronet. '' He's all right, depend
upon it. Ireland isn't so bad as it's painted ;
I've lived there, and I know."

Still, there was a trace of anxiety in his
-eyes, as well as in those of his sisters ; and,
when the month allowed for James's holiday
was over and still no news came of him, they
could no longer hide from each other their
alarm. He was to have spent his time travelling
about the country, staying at Killarney,
and visiting some friends of the family who had
a seat in County Down. Without saying anything

about it to his sisters, Sir Charles wrote
to these friends and received the reply' that
they had heard nothing of the young man,
whom they had expected, but who had never
appeared. Mr. Massey, too, had heard nothing
about him since his every of the letter from
Sir Charles.

The suspense at Waringham was at its
height when, ten weeks after James Otway's-
departure, Geraldine Lindley returned, by Sir
Charles's arrangement, back to her old guardians,
the Misses Gretton, who received her
with joy and affection. Increasing years had
taken the edge off the duenna-like asperity of
the elder, and the beautiful bright-faced young
girl was welcomed by both sisters as a ray of
sunshine to cheer their old age. As for Sir
Charles, who had kept the date of her return
a secret from his own sisters, and had found
that business required him to be in town at the
time, his pride and delight on finding how
brilliantly she had fulfilled the promise of her
pretty babyhood knew no bounds. But, at the
first moment of his meeting her at Victoria
Station, he was struck by an indefinable likeness

to the fairest among the ladies of his own
family, which was even more noticeable in the
graceful accomplished girl of sixteen than it
had been in the merry, active little waif of
three. He took her back to Copsley, dreading
all the way that she would ask some question
about James, the answer to which, revealing
the anxiety her old playfellow's long absence
Alas causing to his friends, must necessarily
pain her. But she did not ask a single direct
question about him, though she mentioned his
name several times, and each time Sir Charles
let the subject drop.

It was through Miss Emma Gretton that
she first heard the bad news, which she
received with such unmoved tranquillity of
manner that the elder lady was rather pained
to see her show so little feelings.

'' Don't you understand, my dear ? We
have every reason  his uncle has every reason
to believe that something very serious, perhaps
something fatal, may have happened to the
poor young gentleman."

I hope not, I'm sure. Miss Emma. But
it is no one's fault but his own if he has got

into some difficulty. You say it was his own
wish to go," said Geraldine, quietly.

And Miss Emma told her sister, when they
were alone together, that, in turning out so
clever, their old pupil was growing rather hard.

She was clever, there was no doubt of that.
Her playing of harp and piano was showy and
brilliant ; her drawing and painting remarkable
for clear, careful resemblance to the copy ;
her French, German, and Italian correct and
fluent. And the wish for further improvement,,
which was not likely to die in the society of
the ex-schoolmistress, made her devote herself
still to study. To the old ladies she seemed
a paragon.

How fortunate, my dear ! " said the elder
to her sister. '' She will make an admirable
governess. I shall not hint that to Sir
Charles ; but we must do our best, very
gradually of course, to prepare Geraldine's mind
for the thought of a career of tuition. Then,
indeed, Sir Charles's generosity will not have
been thrown away. She will be able to enter
a nobleman's family, Emma ; and, later, with
the help of Sir Charles's influence, she might

become principal of a ladles' college. Her
prospects in the direction of instruction are
positively boundless."

I hope she may be worthy of them,
Rebecca. She certainly shows most praiseworthy
Industry. But you know she has
hardly yet arrived at the crucial test of the
period when young girls are apt to let frivolous
and regrettable ideas of gaiety and admiration
turn their attention from steady effort to the
vain things of this world."

"If you mean to a husband, Emma, I am
sure I hope she may find one. For I know,
if I had been handsome enough to attract a
worthy man, I would have jumped at him,"
candidly confessed the elder, whose long
withered face and keen black eyes would now
and then sparkle with a flash of humour and
shrewd common-sense through the crust of
prim rigidity formed by nearly half a century
of strict scholastic discipline.

For nearly a year Geraldine lived quietly
on, as uneventfully as if she had been a
cloistered nun, with nothing but Sir Charles's
visits to break the monotony of the long days

of diligent study varied only by the slow
measured constitutional of a mile or two a
day, which were all that the elder Miss
Gretton, active as she was by nature, now
cared to take, and by the girl's visits to the
neighbouring cottagers. In none of these
expeditions did she ever get as far as
Waringham ; and she never guessed how near
it was to Copsley.

No news came to Sir Charles, either of his
nephew's fate or ol any result of the search for
Geraldine's parents, until the autumn of the
year in which the young girl reached the age
of seventeen. Then Sir Charles received a
letter from Mr. Massey which, coupled with
reports in the newspapers, came upon the
whole household like a thunderbolt.

James Otway was one of six men arrested
on a charge of murder. The victim was a
farmer named Hughes, and the motive of the
outrage was said to be revenge for the
resentment Hughes had shown at an insult
offered by James Otway to his daughter. Sir
Charles and his sisters at once decided that
there was some mistake, that the James Otway

who had been apprehended could not be their
nephew, and the baronet wrote back to the
lawyer to that effect.

Mr. Massey replied that he was sorry to
say there was no possibility of doubt upon the
subject.

Mr. Lindley Fielding," he wrote, " your
unworthy cousin, about whom you have so
often had to consult me, called at my office
the other day, frankly owning that the sight
of another member of his family in difficulties
was, next to his kindness of heart, the attraction
which had taken him to see his nephew. He
said that he had found Mr. James Otway much
depressed and ashamed of himself, and that he
wished his family to forget his existence, should
the law, on account of some doubt as to who
struck the finishing blow at Hughes, allow him
to live. In addition to this evidence, I, having
reason to mistrust Mr. Fielding as a witness
in any matter, myself visited the prisoner
James Otway, who was in truth, as his relative
had for once correctly reported, deeply cast
down and unable to look me in the face. I
have done what I could for him, and I can

undertake to say that he will be most ably
defended. But I fear I must add that the
most you can hope for is that the capital
sentence may be commuted in this case to
penal servitude. I will not press you to come
and see him, knowing your reluctance to do so.
You may rely upon his having the benefit of
every exertion in my power. Mr. Fielding
made many inquiries, which I answered with
caution, about Miss Geraldine Lindley, of
whom he must have have heard through Mr.
James Otway, your nephew. I don't know
what idea he has in his restless, mischief-spinning
brain about this young lady ; but I
would advise you to be on the look-out."

A few weeks later, the six prisoners were
tried at the Munster Assizes, and the sentence
passed upon James Otway was  " Penal servitude
for life."

CHAPTER IV.

Five years have passed uneventfully over the
stagnant household at Waringham Hall since
the day when Sir Charles Otway and his sisters
learnt the terrible news that their nephew James
had been sentenced, on a charge of participation
in a murder, to penal servitude for life.
He is dead to them now ; his name is never
mentioned ; his room, which had been, by order
of his Aunt Elizabeth, kept constantly ready
for his return up to the very day of his apprehension,
was locked up, just as it was, by her
own hand, and has never since been opened.
It is a sepulchre of dead memories, many of
which the cold proud woman would fain forget
for conscience tells her of a boyhood dreary
and joyless through unsympathetic treatment ;
and in the night-time she sometimes fancies she
again hears the patter of little feet, as she used

often to do while in her room dressing for
dinner, when James, sent to bed early and
supperless for some trifling childish fault quite
undeserving of such a harsh punishment,
shuffled sobbing along the corridor, sometimes
stopping outside her door for a moment to give
an ostentatiously loud moan of grief, in the vain
hope of softening her.

The Hall became gloomier than ever,
Elizabeth more imperious, Eleanor more querulous.
Sir Charles, now close upon sixty, more
silent. The very servants  the youngest
middle-aged by this time  had grown into a
mournful gravity which harmonized with the
threadbare carpets and the mouldy hangings,
and with the fallen fortunes of the family.

One consolation Sir Charles had which his
sisters did not share. Three times a week he
rode over to Copsley to see his adopted
daughter, who, at twenty-two, was still with her
old instructress  the younger being dead 
living something like the life of a nun. Most
of the people about the neighbourhood had
learnt her story, though she herself still remained
in ignorance of it ; and she had a circle

of acquaintances, consisting of those few lawyers
and doctors and clergymen about Copsley whom
Miss Gretton honoured with her Intimacy, and
of a chirping colony of old maids. Among
these latter she would long ago have learnt the
manner of her coming to Warlngham but for a
very natural suspicion to which her likeness to
the Otway family. Sir Charles's fondness, and
his sisters' well-known virulent dislike had lonsf
ago given rise.

The earl herself had borne her isolated life
outwardly well ; but the fierce cravings of a
young woman for excitement, for admiration,
for sympathy, for love, were intensified by her
position to such a degree of fever-heat in her
passionate, emotional nature, that, had it not
been for one resource, she must have broken
the bounds of her dull prison life. This resource
was the common one of solitary women,
the spoiling of ream after ream of good paper
with bad verses, long-winded stories, trite
essays, of no value to any one but the owner ;
but they saved her from madness of one sort or
another, and that of course was something.

She was much admired by the golden youth

of the county ; but her anomalous position had
kept away any admirers whom her protectresses
would have considered worthy of encouragement,
until lately, when the only son of the old
Vicar of Waringham, Reginald Bamber, a handsome
man of about thirty, just returned from
America, on the look-out for a wife, had been
so much struck by the girl's beauty and graceful
modesty of manner that he entreated his father
to ask Sir Charles the truth about the girl. He
was a man of too calm and prudent a nature to
offer himself to her in spite of everything ; but
he was deeply enough in love with her not to
be able to resist the temptation of throwing
himself a good deal in her way. She was more
of a coquette than the disdainful indifference
with which she had treated the admiration of
the county gentlemen around would have led
her friends to believe ; and the attention of the
dignified, handsome, sweet-voiced Reginald
Bamber, whom all the girls she knew were
raving about, gave a pleasant variety to her
dull life which led her to give him tacit encouragement
and to make him feel more sure of
her liking than he had any reason to be.

When Mr. Bamber approached the subject
of Geraldlne's history as delicately as he could,
and asked Sir Charles if he thought it fair to
the girl to let her remain In a neighbourhood
where the suspicions cast upon her birth might
possibly injure her prospects, the baronet felt
that the Vicar's words contained a truth to
which he had long tried to blind himself.

'' You are right, Bamber," said he, after a
long pause, during which he had sat like a
culprit, with bent head, accusing and excusing
himself. 'rit Is not fair to the girl. And I
will set it right  yes, I will set it right. She
shall come here, whatever my sisters may say ;
and, once at Waringham Hall, no one will dare
to say a word against her. Heaven knows her
presence will let a flood of light Into the old
vault, and frighten away some of the black
shadows that have crept into the corners of late
years."

The Vicar was amazed. He thought it not
at all unlikely that the baronet would carry his
point with that dogged obstinacy he could show
when he was at last forced by circumstances to
make up his mind upon any point ; but whether

the " flood of sunshine " would long continue to
shed any light in the grim presence of those
two withered sisters who hated her already, and
whose hate would not be likely to diminish
when brought into personal contact with its
object, was another matter. After looking in
some perplexity at his old friend and neighbour
for some minutes after this announcement, the
Vicar rose to his feet and got out of his difficulty
in a characteristic manner.

Well, think it over, think it over," he said,
as he shook hands with the baronet and left
him to his reflections.

These were not wholly cheerful ones. The
explanation he had so long dreaded, so long
shuffled out of, could be put off no longer.
Geraldine must learn that she had lived on lies ;
that there was a mystery about her birth ; that
she was penniless ; that he had two sisters who
disliked her. He counted upon their aversion
melting like snow before the sun under the
influence of her sweetness and charm ; but still
it would not do for her to come Into their
presence In Ignorance of any circumstance in
her own history', to risk its being told to her

less kindly than by his own lips. She had been
as a daughter to him, he as a father to her, for
eighteen years now ; he would adopt her frankly
now, and the fact of his sisters' receiving her
under the same roof with them  for they should
receive her, he had resolved upon that  would
silence the tattle of the neighbourhood, and
make people receive the meagre account which
was all he had to give them as indeed the truth.
Yes, on the very next day he would ride over
as usual to Copsley ; but, instead of sitting as
usual, almost monosyllabically listening to the
prattle which was always cheerful for him, he
would take her out for a walk with him, and
make that strange and difficult confession as
best he might.

But his decision had been made too late, and
his confession was to be forestalled.

On the morning after Sir Charles's conversation
with the Vicar, Geraldine was walking
through a lane a little way from Copsley, with a
basket in her hand containing some jelly and
broth for a sick woman. She was alone, for
Miss Gretton did not feel well enough to
accompany her. Rather glad to be able to
VOL. I. 6

choose her own pace, she was tripping along
as fast as her feet could carry her, the April
air quickening her young blood, brightening
her soft brown eyes, and bringing a glow of
rich colour to her cheeks, when, turning quickly
into a grass-covered cartway which led to the
row of cottages which was the end of her
journey, she came face to face with two
gentlemen ; one was the curate, the other a
stranger whom she had several times lately met
in his company. She had heard a good deal
of gossip lately as to who this strange gentleman
could be, who had for the last few days
come over so frequently from Colchester, where
it was understood that he was staying, apparently
for no other motive than to enjoy the
society of the curate, Mr. Meadows, whose
acquaintance he had made last Sunday after
service, and who, though a good little fellow
enough and quite a favourite everywhere butin
the pulpit, was not the sort of companion
people would have expected such a well-dressed
and well-bred-looking man as the stranger to-find
very interesting.

Geraldine had taken a dislike to the maa

ever since the first moment when she had met
his critical stare of approval in church ; and she
felt very much annoyed when the curate, after
a few low words from his companion, said, in
the hurried nervous manner peculiar to him
when not preaching  in the pulpit vigorous
denunciation was his forte 

'* Miss Lindley, will you allow me to
introduce to you my friend Mr. Howard ? ''

She bowed rather coldly, and exchanged a
few remarks with her new acquaintance in a
hard, smileless, almost repellant manner which
she could assume when she was not pleased.
She thought Mr. Meadows had taken a liberty
in forcing upon her this introduction to a man
who, although his manner was that of a certain
class of gentlemen, was, some Instinct told her,
an undesirable acquaintance. Mr. Howard was
not of the type of men who are easily snubbed,
and he took care not to let her pass on until, by
an adroit remark, he had at last drawn an unwilling
smile from her. She then continued
her walk, fulfilled her errand, paid two or three
visits to cottages near, and returned towards
Copsley. On the way back she gathered a

basketful of primroses, and, turning into the
churchyard, she sat down on one of the tombstones
and began to put them together and
fasten them up, to place on the grave of a little
girl who had been one of her scholars in the
Sunday school, and who had been carried off
by consumption just before the spring flowers
began to blossom.

She was occupied with her flowers with the
utter absorption natural to her In any work,
however trifling, when the voice of the unwelcome
Mr. Howard addressed her. He had
approached from behind her, across the grass
and the graves, so softly that she had not heard
a sound until he spoke.

"Another errand of mercy or kindness, I
can guess, Miss LIndley," said he, with a smile
and a pleasant manner which were difficult to
resist. And Mr. Howard strolled round the
last tombstone which separated him from her,
and, resting his hand upon the cross-beam of a
cold white marble cross, he looked down upon
her with a kindliness which forced her to lookup.
And then she was forced, against her will,
to smile back again.

Mr. Howard was not a very young man.
He was rather short, rather stout, and looked a
year or two less than forty. In truth, he was
older ; but he was so carefully dressed, so genial
of manner, the grey hairs in his dark moustache
and hair were so well dyed, that he carried his
years very lightly.

Geraldine shook her head slowly and rather
sorrowfully, as she answered him 

No one can show either kindness or mercy
to the dead. These flowers are to put on a
grave."

Now, why do you do it ? I have
had impressed upon me most strongly, by
every one I have met about here, that you
are a young lady of transcendent learning
and accomplishments, not at all likely todo
anything without a reason, and a good
one."

'' That silly Mr. Meadows has been telling
you that. He thinks me learned because I
know where all his hackneyed quotations come
from. But even if I were learned I dare say
I should have human weaknesses. I suppose
putting flowers on a grave is silly, yet I should

not like to think there would be no one silly
enough to put them on mine."

Not silly at all. Don't let us talk about
graves," said Mr. Howard, with uncomfortable
hastiness. " Why choose the saddest of all
subjects on such a lovely morning as this ? "

Oh, but I think there are many things
sadder than death ! " said Geraldine, for whom,
in the bloom of her two and twenty years, the
tomb had a fascination which a quarter of a
century's nearer approach to it had very much
decreased in her companion. " Separation 
life-long separation from  from people we care
about." And her voice suddenly quivered.
To see good people unhappy and not to be
able to comfort them ; to havefriends a long
way off in trouble and suffering, and not to be
able to go to them. Why, to die seems easy
compared with a lot of troubles I know. But,
then, I believe people who live very solitary
lives seldom fear death," she added, in a
moralizing tone that frequent solitude had
caused her to acquire when speaking on
subjects about which she had thought much.

But surely you don't lead a solitary life,

young as you are ! You are not quite in the
wilderness here, though I dare say the society
of the neighbourhood is not very evening.
There are so few young people of your own
age in the families about."

Geraldine was rather surprised ; every one
looked upon this gentleman as a stranger.

'' I always find out something about the
inhabitants of any place I may be in, as well
as about the scenery," he added in explanation
; " and I make a point of seeing all the
old houses and churches. Old buildings are
eloquent to me."

"Well, the inhabitants of Copsley are as
old as their houses, I think, and have about
as much to say for themselves."

'you are severe. But I don't confine
myself to Copsley. I go farther afield, and
visit Heckleton and Tolbeach and Waring-ham."


*' The church at Tolbeach is pretty, but
there is not much to see at Heckleton. And
Waringham  why, Waringham is a long way
ff ; it is not in Suffolk at all ! "

No, it is just within the borders of

Norfolk, I know," said the stranger, watching
her. " But it Is only seven miles off, nearer
than Tolbeach."

'* Only seven miles off! Indeed, I  I think
yon must be mistaken. I have lived here all
my life, and I  oh. Indeed I am sure It Is
a great deal farther off than that ! "

*' No ; I assure you you have miscalculated
the distance. You know where the road
branches off, just at the foot of the hill which
goes up to Warlngham park-gates ? "

I have never been to Warlngham ? "

Never been to Warlngham ! " he echoed,
In a tone the surprise of which It suddenly
occurred to Geraldlne to think was feigned.
*' Then that accounts for your thinking It so
much further off than It Is. You ought to
know Sir Charles Otway and his two weird
old sisters." Geraldlne started; but her companion
did not seem to notice this. He
continued  " Sir Charles himself Is a charming
gentleman  he Is an old friend of mine  Indeed
a connection of my family ; but his sisters are
the very reverse of him In all things  at least
the younger Is, and the elder follows her sister's

lead. But you really ought to know Sir
Charles."

*' I do know Sir Charles," answered the
girl, quietly, but In a constrained voice. "He
is my guardian."

Indeed ! To tell the truth, I had heard
so ; but your saying that you had never been
to Waringham made me doubt whether I had
heard correctly."

'' Quite correctly. He was a comrade of
my father's, who left me in his care. He is as
fond of me as if I were his own child."

Yet you have never been to Waringham?"
He let the question slip out so naturally that
it did not seem impertinent.

No-o, I have never been to Waringham,"
Geraldine answered, in a low voice.

Suddenly Mr. Howard's manner changed ;
and, bending a little lower, so that he could
look into her face, he said impressively 

'' And do you know why ? "

The girl raised her head quickly and
coldly 

If he had wished me to know, Sir Charles
would have told me."

And do you not wish to know ? Of
course you do. Some curiosity in the matter,
now that I have unwittingly let out two things
that you did not know before, is only natural."

The girl rose, and clung to the headstone
of the grave next to the flat stone one on which
she had been sitting.

'whatever curiosity I may have to know
whether the things you have told me are true
or false I must stifle. I  I have no right to 
to pry into any secret which my guardian
chooses to keep from me."

She was trembling and cold ; the pretty
colour had left her cheeks, and her eyes seemed
suddenly to have lost their lustre.

Mr. Howard was overwhelmed on seeing
the effect of his rash disclosures. He made
profuse apologies, and added, as he withdrew
his hand from the cross on which it had been
resting and prepared to take leave 

You must allow me, Miss Lindley, as a
man nearly old enough to be your father "  he
was quite old enough, but 'nearly" sounded
better  "to express my admiration of your
self-control, wonderful in one so young, in

resisting the temptation to learn a secret
which, whatever you may say, must be  is of
vital interest to you."

He raised his hat, and was leaving her,
when, turning suddenly towards him, with
trembling lips and shaking voice she called
him back.

Mr. Howard, one moment, please. There
is one question I must ask  I may ask ; there

can be no harm in that. Perhaps " She

stopped, hesitating. In spite of herself, the
poor girl was unable entirely to resist the
temptation to learn something more, if only
a little ; and she was trying to think of an
innocent question.

Mr. Howard came to the rescue.

Do not torture yourself needlessly," said
lie, kindly. '' There is nothing much more
.terrible in what you have not heard than in
what you have heard. The answer to one
of the questions which puzzle you I have
already given you ; it is Sir Charles's sisters,
-or rather his sister Elizabeth, who is the
obstacle to your going to Waringham. Whatever
her brother hates she loves ; Whatever 

whoever he loves, she hates. As Sir Charles
your guardian I think you called him ?  ;is
fond of you, I will answer for it that, in
Elizabeth Otway's eyes, poison would not be
bad enough for you."

'ris that so ? " asked the girl, her face
suddenly clearing. " Then, of course. Sir
Charles could not take me to see Warlngham,
because his sisters would not have received me
kindly ; and so, in order to avoid telling me
that, for fear It might pain me, he never
mentioned them to me, and let me think
Warlngham was a long way off. That is
just like him  so kind and considerate ! That
explains everything. Oh, I am so glad ! " she
cried, as the natural colour began to flow back
to her cheeks, and she gave a deep sigh of
relief *' I  I began to be quite frightened.
It came so suddenly, and I have always lived
so quietly that anything that sounds at all
strange impresses me deeply. I  I don't
know what I thought at first."

Nothing half so strange as the truth, Miss
Lindley, I am sure of that. What would you
say to a person who would clear up the mysteries

concerning you and the people about you,
which must long have puzzled you ? "

'' What mysteries ? I know of no mysteries.
I don't understand you," said the girl, sharply,
her face flushing red under this new and more
alarming form of attack.

'' Has it never occurred to you to ask yourself
 if not, to ask those around you  why you
lead a life so different from that of other girls ?
why you have been brought up as those girls
are who are intended to shine in society, and
yet are kept shut up here with two old school-mistresses
like a nun, with no companions of
your own age, none of the usual amusements
and gaieties of a young lady ? Do you never
wonder why you are never shown any portraits
of your parents, why you are never told anything
about them except vaguely in answer to
questions from yourself ? "

What do you mean ? " gasped Geraldlne,
in a very low voice, looking at him steadily, but
clinging to the worn stone by which she was
standing, as if she scarcely felt that she had
strength to bear the shock of what might becoming.


"What would you say to  some one who
having heard your story and been struck with
deep pity for your position and deep admiration
for the way in which you filled it, had taken
the trouble to hunt out evidence which would
remove you from it, would expose the cruelty
which has let your bright young life lie under
a shadow for so long, and force those who are
keeping you out of your rightful place to yield
it up to you ? "

I don't understand you."

If this were true that I am telling you,
you would be grateful to such a person, would
you not ? I am sure you would, for you are
very tender-hearted. And if this person were
to prove to be a  a relative of your own, who
had been as ill-treated at the hands of the rest
of his family as you had been yourself by the
same persons, you would In gratitude stretch
out a kindly hand to him, show him sympathy
in his trials, give him help In his struggles with
unmerited misfortune."

All this bewilders me. I don't know what
you mean. I begin to feel that I ought never
to have listened."

*'Ah, that is what people always begin to
feel when you mention to them that you expect
a little help in return for a great service ! "
interrupted Mr. Howard, the passionate tones
to which he had worked himself up during his
last speech changing a little. '' But that is not
like you, Miss Lindley. You are generous-hearted.
You "

'' Wait, wait. Let me think. You are a
stranger to me, and you come upon me with 
with a long account of some mystery which you
make more mysterious by your way of telling
it. Before I hear another word from you I
must see my guardian, must tell him what you
have told me  or part of it, at least  there is
no help for it now  and must ask him if I am
to believe  what I am to believe."

Ask Sir Charles ! You will get no help
there. He will stammer and excuse himself,
tell you I am not to be believed, that what I
have told you is a tissue of nonsense."

*' If my guardian tells me that, that is the
version I shall have to accept, Mr. Howard."

You will try to do so, perhaps. But some
day human nature will get the better of you sofar

as to lead you to ask, not Sir Charles, but
some Indifferent person how far off Waringham
is ; and when you hear that it is just seven
miles from here, some other day you will not be
able to resist the temptation to walk those seven
miles ; and when you find out that, besides Sir
Charles, the two old ladies, his sisters, live in it,
you will begin to wonder if there was not some
truth in those other suggestions the stranger
gave you, and to be tormented with a burning
wish to know what that last and most important
piece of information was which you were too
proud or too timid to let him tell."

'you are mistaken. Whatever my guardian
tells me will satisfy me."

'* I think not. But it is possible something
I have to tell him may satisfy him. For, though
you have not treated the disinterested services
of a complete stranger very kindly, I am
magnanimous enough to resolve to serve you
against your will. Then, when you have experienced
my generosity In spite of yourself, it
will He with you whether you show me a corresponding
generosity In return, or  like most
of your sex  forget it. I will give you my

address. When  I do not say ' If ' but ' when '
you want my help to clear up the mass of
difficulties and contradictions you will encounter
when you put your questions to Sir Charles, a
note, a telegram will summon me to your service
Immediately."

He put Into her hand a card, which she
allowed to drop unread to the ground. He was
not daunted by this show of disdain, knowing
well that she would pick It up and read it as
soon as he was out of sight, and that, if she
were to tear it In pieces and throw It to the
winds the next moment, the address would
remain Indelibly graven on her mind.

She let him go with the coldest of bows in
answer to his elaborately courteous salute, and
in her nervous excitement uttered a short scream
as Reginald Bamber's sweet voice, graver and
rather faster than usual, addressed her.

Miss LIndley, what has that man been
saying to you ? He has frightened you."

Oh no, not at all ! He is a stranger here
a friend of Mr. Meadows. He only "

She gave way and burst into a passion of
tears. Turning blindly to escape, she ran

VOL. I. 7

against a gravestone, and Reginald laid a gentle,
restraining hand on her arm the next moment.

'have you hurt yourselves" he asked very
softly.

'' No, oh no ! Let me go, please. Miss
Gretton Is waiting for me. I "

You must let me ask you one question.
Miss Lindley. You know very well it is not
impertinent curiosity which prompts me. I
know the man who was speaking to you just
now  at least, I knew him once. I know him
as a worthless insinuating scamp, who will
make any mischief in order to make a little
profit out of it. He would tell any lie, tease
anybody, to any extent "

What, what ? Are you sure ? " Interrupted
Geraldine, eagerly seizing his hand in her
breathless anxiety, as she looked up with
glistening Intent eyes Into his face. ''He does
not tell the truth, you say ? He is unworthy
of any belief ? "

Quite ! He would make up any story
almost for the bare pleasure of exercising his
invention, I really believe."

Thank Heaven ! " she whispered, as her

hands fell listlessly down at her sides, and for
the moment Reginald thought she was fainting.

But she recovered even as he put his arm
about her, and, freeing herself gently, looked
up at him with grateful moist eyes as she held
out her hand.

Thank you," said she unsteadily. " You
have relieved me from a terror I cannot
describe, I could not understand. The man
frightened me by hints and stories which
seemed to take the very ground from under
my feet. I have not recovered from the effects
of them even now. Forgive me for being so
silly, so incoherent ; I will tell you  explain
myself when I am  myself again."

He pressed her hand warmly in his, and
let her go. Then he left the churchyard and
went hastily in the direction he had seen " Mr.
Howard " take. It was towards the station ;
and, seeing that there was no trace of that
gentleman about and that a train had just
started, Reginald came to the conclusion that
Mr. Meadows's genial friend was satisfied that
he had done mischief enough for one day ; and,
remounting his father's cob, on which he had

ridden over on the chance of getting a glimpse
of Geraldlne Lindley, he returned to Waring-ham
Vicarage.

*' But " Mr. Howard " was to do worse
mischief than that before the day was over.

CHAPTER V,

Geraldine returned home, still in such a state
of bewilderment and nervous excitement that
she did not know whether the effect of Mr.
Howard's words had passed away, whether
Reginald's assurances that the man was not
to be believed had or had not relieved her
mind from the weight of vague but terrible
misgivings which the information he had volunteered
and the hints he had thrown out had
laid upon her. Miss Gretton was in some
alarm because she had been out longer than
usual ; but Geraldine had self-command enough
to describe in a lively manner how she had
been tempted by primroses to walk further and
to linger longer than she had intended, which
satisfied her old friend, who, now past seventy,
was not so lynx-eyed at detecting a shifting

glance or a change of colour as she had once
been.

But when the girl was alone again, it was
inevitable that she should discover that it was
impossible for her to rest until she had seen
Sir Charles and learnt from his own lips
whether there was any particle of truth in
the strange things she had been told, and, if
not, what this man's motive could have been
for deliberately hunting her out to distress her
with them. After dinner  for Miss Gretton
remained faithful to the school habit of dining
in the middle of the day  she made an excuse
to go out again, went back, half ashamed of
herself, to the churchyard, and hunted about
for the strangers card. She had not looked
at it when he had given it to her, and now
she could not find it  she picked up, indeed,
at a little distance from the spot where she had
stood during her interview with the stranger,
a gentleman's card on which was printed the
name '' Mr. Lindley Fielding" with an address
in London, in the city, written below in pencil ;
but, knowing that the strangers name was
Howard, she thought at first that this card

must have fallen from his pocket-book by accident.
However, she could find no other ; and
then the possibility of a man with no character
having two names occurring to her, she put the
card into her purse, slipped guiltily out of the
churchyard, and as fast as she could walk
to one of a row of cottages a little distance
off. The mother of two of her Sunday-school
scholars lived there ; but, though Geraldine
made the excuse of calling to know whether
Eliza s cough was any better, she hardly heard
Mrs. Boggett's answer.

You used to live in Norfolk once, Mrs.
Boggett, didn't you ? " she asked, after a few
remarks about the baby.

Yes, miss, I was kitchen-maid two years
in Mr. Facets family at Thorpe. I was
married from there, miss."

Thorpe ! Oh yes ; that Is near Waring-ham,
isn't it ? "

*walsingham! Bless ye, no, miss! Thorpes
miles and miles from Warlnorham. It takes
nigh upon two hours by the railway to get
to Thorpe."

It  it doesn't take nearly so long to get

to Waringham, does It ? " asked the girl, with
hands which trembled so much that the astonished
mite on her lap turned and feebly tried
to slap her.

'' Bless your heart, no ! Why, It's only a
walk from here to Waringham ! "

'' Oh yes, yes, of course ! How far do you
call it ? "

'' Well, it's a matter of three or four mile, I
should say."

'' Oh, it must be more than that ! " broke
out the girl, with sudden vehemence.

'well, mayhap it is. I'm not much of
a dab at guessing such things, and I don't
know as I've ever heard tell the length of it
rightly."

'how long does it take to walk there ?
Do you know, Mrs. Boggett ?"

Well, John can do it in a little over two
hours ; but then he's a good walker is John.
But you wasn't thinking of walking over to
Waringham  was ye, miss ? "

Oh no ! " answered Geraldlne, who indeed
had no such intention. She had only taken
the simplest means of finding out from the

ignorant woman how far her guardian's home
really was from hers. She was satisfied now ;
and, after wishing "good day" to Mrs. Boggett,
who guessed, from the young lady's absent
manner, that something was amiss, she returned
home, and, unable to face the old lady just yet,
went straight to her own room to give way to
an agony of suspense and misery. It was not
that this little discovery was by itself very terrible
; but this evidence that the stranger had
told the truth on one point opened the possibility
of his having done so concerning other
matters. His strange statements, his mysterious
hints, could only be explained away by Sir
Charles ; he was sure to call before the afternoon
was over, as he had not been to Copsley
for two days. She listened, on fire with
impatience, for the sound of the bell, or of his
horse's hoofs upon the drive ; at last she stole
into Miss Gretton's bedroom, which was in the
front of the house, and watched with deepening
anxiety for his long-delayed arrival. But the
afternoon wore on into the evening, and Sir
Charles never came. During the six years
since her return from Paris he had never before

allowed so long a time as three days to elapse
without coming to see his adopted child ; and
even Miss Gretton began to be anxious, and
to wonder whether Sir Charles had had another
of those attacks like the one he had had twelve
years ago, when he had been threatened with
paralysis. A sudden misgiving that the messenger
of 111 omen who had disturbed her own.
peace that morning had had something to do
with the absence of her adored guardian filled
Geraldlne with alarm, and caused her to lie
awake that night a prey to a thousand fantastic
and torturing fears.

Her affection had put her apprehensions
upon the right track. That very afternoon,
within three hours of the time when the
stranger left Geraldlne In Copsley churchyard,,
the old servant Johnson, who, now that the
number of servants at Waringham Hall was at
last reduced, was butler, valet, and footman all
in one, came to the door of Miss Eleanor
Otway's room and told her that a gentleman
wished to see her. Eleanor was sixty by this
time, and more shrivelled and shrunken thar
ever ; but this message put her Into a flutter

of excitement and brought a tinge of orange to
her cheeks. For she knew that Elizabeth was
out, and knew that her visitor must be that
family scapegrace upon whom, nearly thirty
years ago, she had bestowed a limp but
constant affection, of which he had many
times since, when in pecuniary difficulties more
embarrassing than usual, taken advantage.
The best of those few family trinkets which
had fallen to her share had one by one passed
from her hands to his, together with such small
sums as she could ill spare from her meagre
allowance of pocket-money ; and each of these
remittances had been accompanied by a copy
of some pocket devotional work and a pedantically
phrased letter, punctuated with notes of
exclamation, after the fashion of those ladies
whose education has been of the slip-shod
order, in which a less careless reader than the
man to whom they were addressed might have
detected the ring of a very pure and simple-hearted
affection. He had, indeed, sometimes
shed a maudlin tear upon one of these notes
over the whiskey-antipater which her generosity
had enabled him to procure ; and he

had boasted of her devotion without letting his
hearers know that this " good little cousin " was
plain of feature and a good many years older
than himself. But the condescendingly sentimental
liking he had for her, on account of the
lift to his own self-esteem which her constancy
gave him, was a poor thing which the simpleminded
object of it rated much too highly.

As she entered the seldom-used morning
room into which she had directed that he
should be shown, she was struck at once by
the airy gaiety and ease of his manner, and
thought at once they must portend some more
than usually deep difficulty.

What is the matter, Lindley ? " she asked,
her feeble voice shaking with anxiety. '' What
can have happened to bring you here ? Don't
you know that Elizabeth may return at any
moment ? She has only gone for a drive.
And then  oh, what would she say ? "

These young girl's words, spoken as they
were without the least affectation, were oddly
pathetic in the mouth of the leathern faced,
bent old woman who would make, Lindley
Fielding thought, as he examined her curiously

in the waning sunlight of the April afternoon,
an excellent model for the Witch of Ensor.

'she may say what she chooses when I
have the pleasure of seeing her," said he,
buoyantly. " One of the objects of my visit
is to have a little important conversation with
her ; but of course my first care was to see
you," he added, with gallant tenderness. '' Do
you know how long it will be before she
returns ? " he asked, after a pause, in which
he had affectionately led her to a seat.

I expect her every moment," answered
Eleanor, nervously. " But do you think you
are wise to face her, Lindley ? I know you
are very brave ; but she says such bitter things,
she has no mercy, she makes no allowances
for the difference between men's temptations
and women's sheltered position. I have
often intimated this to her on your behalf 
I have, indeed ; but with little effect, I am
afraid."

'' Let her say what she pleases, Eleanor ;
I have something to say to her which will turn
her hard words and sharp looks in another
direction, I fancy. Is Charles at home ? "

** Yes ; but that doesn't matter. I am not
afraid of Charles ; it is only Elizabeth."

And why be afraid of Elizabeth, my sweet
cousin ? Does she still bully and snub you
both as she used to do ? "

Oh, Lindley, you should not say that !
Her character is different from ours  not so
easy to understand perhaps, but much stronger.
She is the pillar of the family."

*' Well, she is hard enough ! However, I
have come to pull the pillar down."

' Lindley ! "

'' Yes. She has done her ' best to turn
every member of the family against me, and
all for no better reason than that I preferred
her more modest and retiring sister to her
overbearing self," said he, fatuously.

But that is all over now, Lindley," said
Eleanor, rather pleased, in spite of herself.
We are all getting old now, and should forget
such things. Why, do you know, It is nearly
twenty years since we have seen each other ! "

Is it, indeed ? It seems merely a few
months to me," he responded quickly. He did
not care for reminders of this sort ; and, as for

her suggestion that it was time to " forget those
things," why, he had never felt himself to be so
eligible an object for the tender passion as he
was now at mellow  well, forty ! But of course
it was very different with these old maids, and
one must make allowance for them.

You will think her rather passe now, I
dare say, Lindley  that is, if you insist upon
meeting her. But she is very handsome still 
at least, we think so ; you know she has always
been the beauty of the family."

Well, she will have to give up that place
now, and on the whole I don't think she can
complain that she has been hurried out of it.
We will see if we can't give the county another
beautiful Miss Otway, and one too whose title
to loveliness it will be less easy to dispute."

What do you mean, Lindley ? We are the
<3nly Miss Otwayss left."

** Are you sure ? "

Yes, of course I am ; quite, quite sure.
Unless, indeed, some upstarts of the same
name are trying to pass themselves off as
distant connections of ours ! " said she, drawing
herself up.

Oh no ! The lady I mean Is in the direct
line."

But that is impossible  you know it is
impossible, Lindley," she repeated querulously,
looking up into his face with impatience, increased
by the curious expression of triumphant
conviction she read there. " Look here,"
she added, after a few moments' pause  '' my
father and his sister, your mother, were the
only two Otwayss left in the direct line, weren't
they?"

Quite true."

And, then, when Aunt Henrietta your
mother, married Mr. Fielding, your father,
why, then she ceased to be an Otway ! "

That is true also."

'' So that papa was the only Otway left ;
and, now that he is dead, Charles and Elizabeth
and I are the only Otwayss."

But one."

One ! Which one ? What do you mean,
Lindley ? Who is the other ? "

Eleanor had risen to her feet, and was
leaning upon her silver-headed taper crutch-stick,
with her black eyes staring at him out

of the brown wrinkled face, like a sorceress
frightened by some apparition she has herself
conjured up.

Yes, who is the other ? I too should
like to know that," struck in a hard, clear
voice which seemed to cut the air ; and, turning
 even Lindley more startled than he chose
to appear  they both saw that Elizabeth had
entered the room, and was standing, looking
as commanding in her brown stuffy gown as
Eleanor looked insignificant in hers, with her
long slim white fingers still upon the handle of
the door, very dignified, very quiet, very cold.

Lindley moved towards her in a sauntering,
airy manner, in which her sharp gaze detected
something more than his old bravado.

You shall know in good time, my dear
cousin," said he, genially. '' But I think, in
common fairness, it is the head of the family
who should have the privilege of learning the
interesting secret first."

And as, for all practical purposes, Lindley,
I am the head of the family, as you very well
know, in common fairness you will entrust the
interesting secret to me," she urged, with care-vol.

I. 8

lessens so admirably feigned, that If It had
been possible for her to be even as civil as this
to him without a very strong motive, LIndley
would have thought It real.

'* I'm afraid I must steel myself to resist
even your all-conquering fascination," said
Lindley, showing his handsome teeth, only
one of which was false, in a smile which was
still admired by some women, though to his
cousin Elizabeth at this moment it seemed a
ghastly caricature of mature fascination at
which she did not scruple to shudder.

I suppose you know that, to bear legally
the name of Otway, the person so bearing it
must be the child of a gentleman of that name
who has been legally married to that child's
mother ? "

So I have been told, my fair cousin."

And I suppose you know that the only
living gentleman of the family bearing the
name of Otway Is my brother Charles ? "

My cousin Charles. I have heard something
of the kind."

** And that he Is the only person who could
possibly be the father of such a child ? "

This was put in exactly the same tone, but
something in the glance of the cold, blue eyes
told that this was more of a question than the
others had been.

I think I may even go with you as far
as that," said LIndley, very slowly and impressively.


Her eyes showed that she did not believe
him. However, she went on 

'' You have come, then, to inform Sir
Charles, my brother, of the existence of a
legitimate child of his ? " she asked, with a
sneer.

Your conjectures, as might be expected
from you, show considerable penetration."

Of whose legitimacy he was ignorant ? "

Wonderful, wonderful ! "

Otherwise, you see, your information
would not be of sufficient value to encourage
you to swagger in the house where you
formerly cringed."

Epigrammatically put, though severe, and
still wonderful in its discernment, like all your
other remarks."

Elizabeth made no show of impatience.

She Stood confronting him Hke marble, except
for the steely glitter of her cold, blue eyes.
After a pause, she moved, turning slightly
towards him ; and, with a sudden smile which
was like the flash of flint-and-steel, she said,
in a lower, softer voice, and with a look of
inquiring innocence

Does it often happen that a man marries
and becomes the father of a child without
knowing it ? "

*' Not often, I believe," answered the unabashed
LIndley, in suave mimicry of her own
tone.

'ein such a case, no doubt, he would show
deep gratitude to the person who put him in
possession of such a bewildering piece of
information ? "

*' I may say I believe that too."

I think you may say, LIndley Fielding,,
that you reckoned upon it." Then, changing
back to her old hard tone, she went on slowly,
fixing upon him a steady gaze which, in spite
of himself, made his full brown eyes shift their
audacious glance from her face to the carpet,
** You have a very ingenious plan, LIndley, for

inducing Sir Charles to adopt openly and
proclaim as his legitimate child a girl less
honourably connected with the family, to
whom, as you know  for you keep yourself
well informed of our affairs  he has become
fondly and foolishly attached. You know that
he is so absurdly infatuated about this girl that
he would willingly seize upon any plan for
openly adopting her as his daughter, and
removing the prejudice which naturally rests
upon the foundling. You know that he is
ready to do this, even to the prejudice of his
legitimate relatives, to the annoyance and open
insult of his unattractive old sisters. You,
therefore, not unnaturally reckon upon persuading
him to take this course without much
difficulty ; and, in return for your suggestion,
and for your undertaking to provide the
necessary story and the necessary witnesses to
the  hem  the truth of it, you also not unnaturally
reckon upon  his gratitude."

Really, Elizabeth, in the art of making
a story I yield to you most humbly. I am
quite astounded  overwhelmed by your eloquence
; the more so as this fascinating fiction

of yours has not had the assistance of the least
basis of truth. But it would be idle to insist
on that point ; your blushing modesty would
still lead you to forego the claim of such
striking invention. Therefore, I will withdraw
myself from your presence to ponder on your
genius alone, or perhaps to join in admiration
of it with my cousin, your brother, the head
of the family  in fact, with Sir Charles."

He bowed, and airily and swiftly went outby
the second and less used door, which led
into the dining-room, thus avoiding any personal
collision with his dignified cousin, who-had
drawn herself up where she stood in a
rather menacing manner. She turned sharply ;:
but it was too late  he was gone.

Poor Eleanor had sunk, trembling like a
leaf, down on the sofa during this scene, which
she had witnessed in terror, turning her bead-like
black eyes from the one to the other as.
thrust succeeded thrust in the short dialogue,.
and uttering from time to time a faint exclamation
of protest, of which neither took the
slightest heed. She now started up as if to
detain Lindley ; but, as he had already left the

room by the time she was on her feet, she fell
back again on to the chintz-covered cushions,
with their old-fashioned pattern of huge flowers,
whose gaudy colours had now long been toned
down, and looked at her sister in querulous
reproach.

Elizabeth's blue eyes were still bright with
a sort of ice-bound fire.

'' What did he say to you before I came,
Eleanor ? Did he tell you why he had come ?
What reason did he give ? "

Oh, Elizabeth, I don't know ! Don't look
at me like that. He said nothing In particular.

He just said he had a secret No ; he said

there was another Miss Otway, and then you
came In. He said no more about it, indeed."

Oh, you had something more interesting
to talk about, I suppose ! " sneered the other,
coldly. " I am afraid you have not used your
influence over your admirer to the best
advantage, or he would not now be occupied
in trying to turn us both out of our home by
foisting his own child upon our brother."

*' His own child! Lindley's child!" cried
Eleanor, in horror.

"Yes. I have long suspected it; to-day I
am sure of It."

"You mean the girl Charles has educated?"
faltered Eleanor.

Yes. On the very night when misfortune
brought the wretched child here her likeness
to Aunt Henrietta's portrait woke my suspicions.
It was a trick of Lindley's, a very
clever trick ; and It Is not surprising that he is
so triumphant over its success. But he Is
going a little too fast now, and I fancy I can
impede his last all-important step."

What do you mean, Elizabeth ? "

He will try to persuade Charles to declare
this peasant woman's waif to be his own
legitimate child. The girl Is handsome, they
tell me  In fact, I have taken care to see her,
and, unluckily, her appearance Is in favour of
this Infamous plan. Now that  now that
Charles has no heir, owing to  to our last
terrible misfortune five years ago, you see
nobody would be injured by such an arrangement
but us ; and Charles would salve over
his conscience in that respect by saying to
himself that he would take care to provide

for US, and that, when we knew her better,
she would be the light of our lives, or some
such nonsense. And then he would shuffle
and delay as usual, until at his death it would
be found, just as it was when poor papa died,
that we were left with nothing. We should
be at the mercy of this vagrant girl, who would
grudge us the means of living like tradesmen's
widows In apartments at Yarmouth or Lowestoft.
This is what your favourite Is trying to
bring about, Eleanor ; but. In the face of my
accusations, Charles will not dare to keep
steadfast to the lie."

Oh, Elizabeth, all this will kill me, I am
sure it will ! " moaned the other, falling into
her usual formula in times of excitement. '' I
suppose the girl will let me be burled In the
vault at Gilllngstone ; it won't cost much to
have my body taken there ? "

But the question did not Interest her sister,
who left the room with no other answer thana
glance of contempt at the Inability of the
other to grasp a situation so full of danger.
She hesitated in the hall for a few moments,
debating whether she should go upstairs to

her room and take off the outdoor garments
she was still wearing, or knock at the door of
the library to disturb her brother and cousin in
the concoction of their scheme. She decided
that a bold accusation when the plot was ripe
would be the more effective plan ; and she had
walked towards the staircase, which was in an
inner hall in the centre of the house, when
a noise from the library caused her to stop
short. It was the unmistakable sound of a
heavy fall. She turned back, and was at the
door of the library in a moment. There was
no further sound inside but the sharp rustle of
paper  no voice, no tread. She turned the
handle quickly, and called 

- Charles ! "

There was no answer ; but the sound inside
ceased.

'' Charles ! " she called again.

Again no answer ; but she heard a very soft
footstep in the room. She did not scruple to
put her eye to the keyhole ; but all she could
see was a part of the table and some books on it.

*' Charles ! " she repeated, in a louder tone,
*' Open the door, or I shall think something has.

happened to you, and I shall send Johnson to
get in by the window."

This threat brought Lindley to the door,
which he unlocked and opened, with a face of
well-expressed horror and distress.

** Come in ! Call the servants ! Where is
the bell ? " he cried, stepping back into the
room and holding open the door for Elizabeth
to enter. " Come and help me to raise poor
Charles. He is in a fit, I'm afraid."

Elizabeth crossed the room, pulled aside
the heavy screen which shut in her brother's
favourite corner near the fire, and saw him
lying on his face on the floor, close by the large
bureau which stood opposite the fireplace, and
a few feet from it. She touched the bell, and
was on her knees beside him in a moment,
trying to raise him, without a word to the
effusive Lindley, who fidgeted officiously about
the room, but refrained from again offering to
join his services to hers, warned by the hasp-like
manner in which her well-cut mouth was
closed. As soon as she had discovered that
her brother was not dead, she looked up and
said quietly 

'' Why did you not ring at once ? "

I lost my head for a moment. I thought
I thought something had happened to him ;
I threw myself down beside him and begged
him to speak to me."

Strange that I heard him fall, but did not
hear your voice ! Why did you not let me in
at once ? "

*' I did let you in as soon as I heard you.
But I was so much occupied with poor
Charles "

No," said she, sharply, *' not with poor
Charles, but with poor Charles's papers."

He winced ever so slightly, then turned
away as if this woman's wearisome suspicions
were beneath contempt.

I really cannot condescend to answer anymore
of your ridiculous and heartless speeches,"
said he, with dignity. '' At such a moment as
this, when your brother's life may be in danger,
I really should have thought you would be
occupied with something more serious than my
imaginary crimes."

At this moment they were interrupted by
the entrance of Johnson, who, with Lindley's

help, raised the baronet from the floor and
placed him, still unconscious, upon the sofa.
Then Elizabeth gave her cousin a hint that he
might retire, which even he was fain to take ;
and he left the Hall, airily promising the butler,
who knew quite well what this gentleman's
welcome was likely to be, that he would return
to make inquiries.

Elizabeth had sent to Goldborough for a
doctor ; but In the meantime she despatched
one of the servants with a note to a retired
physician who lived near, begging him to
come and see her brother, saying she scarcely
knew whether he was alive or dead. Old Mr.
Crosse came at once and pronounced, as she
had guessed, that the baronet was struck by
paralysis. They carried him upstairs to his
own room ; and, as soon as Elizabeth had
seen him laid on the huge-canopied wooden
bed she hastened downstairs aofain to the
library.

Even after that short absence she took the
precaution of looking out of both the high
windows right and left into the dusk, and of
glancing into every corner of the room in which

It was possible for any one to hide. She
saw no one, however ; and, after ringing for a
lamp, which she placed upon the bureau, she
told Johnson to close the shutters. It was
early in the day to do this, which was generally
done while the family were at dinner, and he
obeyed with a good deal of unexpressed surprise.
As soon as she was alone again, she turned
over all the papers lying about ; none of them
were of the least importance. Sir Charles,
dilatory and indolent as he was, had certain
soldierly habits of order ; and such of the
drawers of his bureau as were not securely
locked contained nothlnof of interest or value.
Lindley had not had much time for ferreting,
and, unless he had managed to obtain possession
of Sir Charles's keys. In which case the lookout
kept for his re-appearance could not be
too close, there was not much to fear from his
industry and research, great as those were in
him when a work of mischief was in question.
Whether he had any clear object in view in the
foraging over which she had interrupted him,
or whether he had been merely putting a spare
moment to profit on the chance of lighting upon

something out of which capital might be made,
she did not know. Times of illness and death,
when a household is of course somewhat disorganized
and has something better to do than
to keep guard over every scrap of paper, are
just the times when an intelligent outsider may
make himself master of many a little bit of
useful information ; and Lindley Fielding would
not be slow to take advantage of any opportunity
of this kind. She left the library, locking
the door, and taking away the key, and went
to the drawing-room, where poor Eleanor,
with a smelling-bottle in one hand, a devotional
work, " On the Way of Using Severe
Affliction as Discipline for the Soul," in the
other, was sobbing on the sofa by the white
hearthrug.

Elizabeth retreated at once, and went upstairs
to her brother's room. After a few words to
the old housekeeper, who was watching beside
him, and a glance at the unconscious figure
with closed eyes and head slightly moving
from side to side on the pillow, she examined
the clothes he had worn that day, and in one of
the pockets found his keys.

And, her sisterly solicitude being now
satisfied, she went to her own room, where she
remained until, the bell being silent on account
of the invalid, Johnson came to announce to her
that dinner was ready.

CHAPTER VI.

On the following morning Sir Charles was no
better ; he still lay without speech, almost
without movement, either with his eyes closed
or else with them fixed on the telling in a
painful frowning stare, as If vainly trying to
recall some memory which had escaped him.
Both his sisters visited him early ; the elder to
shrink down on to her knees at his bedside to
offer up a prayer for him, and to make a faint
offer of her services as nurse  the younger to
survey him very critically, wondering what
shock it was which had had such a terrible
effect upon him.

On leaving his bedside, she went downstairs
to the library, unlocked the door, let
herself in, and, taking from her pocket the keys
she had found the night before In her brother's
VOL. I. 9

coat, she opened successively the locked drawers
of the bureau to try to satisfy a vague wonder
whether there was any secret in his life which
Lindley had in some way got hold of, and was
trying to trade upon. But there was nothing
which contained the least Intimation of that
sort, though Elizabeth, in her hunt for this
chance prize, came upon certain papers which
explained something that had long been exercising
her mind, and fully repaid her for this
rather adventurous search.

For, by certain receipts and memoranda
which she discovered, the Indignant lady found
out by what means her brother had for so many
years supported and educated his adopted child,
and also was enabled to ascertain for the first
time how much his freak had cost him. And,
in her first outbreak of solitary rage at the
discovery that the expenses of his undertaking
had been rather more than double what he
had represented to them, and that he had had
to sell two of his farms and to cut down some
timber unknown to her to meet them, Elizabeth
started up and stepped forward to the door,
as If seized by an irresistible impulse to vent

her wrath upon the unconscious figure lying
upstairs. She had scarcely turned the key in
the lock, however, when her reason returned,
and, half ashamed of her action, though her
anger was as violent as ever, she turned sharply
back, forgetting to relock the door, and, returning
to her place at the bureau behind the
screen, she bent again, with tightly pressed lips
and glittering eyes, over the evidences of her
brother's criminal deceit and extravagance.

She was roused from her occupation by a
very soft little chuckle of amusement ; and, as
she raised her head quickly, her eyes met those
of Lindley Fielding, who had come into the
room as softly as a cat, and who was watching
her round the screen with a malicious delight
on his blandly smiling face, which turned the
torrent of her fury upon him.

'' How dare you sneak into this house again,
after the mischief you have done in it ? " she
demanded, rising, her cold eyes flashing, her
voice low but harsh with anger.

I came to see whether you had recovered
from the effects of sitting up all night nursing
your brother," replied Lindley, softly. " I did

not know that I should find you so pleasantly
employed. Charles is well enough to have
sent you to look for something, perhaps  for
some paper of interest and importance ? Or
are you hunting on your own account ? "

*' Leave the room and leave the house, or
I will have you turned out."

Very well ; turn me out. Go and ring
the bell."

She could not do this without leaving him
in possession of the bureau, he thought ; but he
underrated the Avoman s audacity. Carefully
glancing at the papers upon which her hands
were lying, she replaced them coolly in one
of the little travers of the bureau, locked it,
touched the handles of two or three of the
other drawers to see that they were securely
fastened ; and then, putting the keys into her
pocket, she walked to the fireplace and rang
the bell sharply.

Bravo ! " said Lindley.

Elizabeth looked at her cousin aofain, but
this time not with anger  that had no effect
upon him  but with searching inquiry. What
did he know ? There was something portentous

in the permanence of his serene Insolence.
He was a man without ballast, and at the mercy
of fortune, good or bad : she began to feel that
he must be on smooth waters to be so confident ;
and insensibly her manner changed. Watching
each other keenly as they where doing, no faintest
relaxation of feature was lost upon Lindley,
who asked himself, in his turn 

'' Does she guess anything ? What does
she know ? "

She remained at the. bureau; but, after
occupying herself for a few moments with the
loose papers lying on it, she raised her head,
and said shortly 
Sit down, Lindley."

He accepted the abrupt and somewhat ungracious
invitation with outward calmness ;
but his curiosity was roused, and increased
when, upon Johnson appearance, instead of
the threatened order to show him out, his
cousin merely uttered the words 

Bring some sherry."

Lindley appeared to take no notice of this
change of front, but, with hands easily crossed
upon the rail of his chair and eye-glass up, sat

looking out into the park, waiting in wise silence
for her next move.

She said nothing until the sherry was
brought ; and then, signing to him to help himself,
which he did liberally without hesitation,
she began, in a quiet, business-like tone, drawing
upon the blotting-paper in front of her, and
very intent upon that work 

Look here, Lindley, if you have anything
of real interest to tell, it may be as well worth
your while to tell me as to tell Charles."

Worth my while, Elizabeth ! "dropping
his eye-glass from his eye in his wounded
surprise. '' I don't understand you."

Don't you, really ? Well, I will explain.
The gratitude you expected from Charles for
the information you had to impart to him may
take an even more substantial form in my hands
than in his."

'' Really, Elizabeth, if you think I am a
person to be bribed, especially in a matter
where the family honour is concerned, you
make a great mistake," said Lindley, putting
down a large piece of cake which he had cut
for himself, in order to be more free to express

the proud indignation he felt at her
suggestion.

He was so sternly incorruptible that she
felt he mistrusted her power to fulfil her
implied promises.

Oh, the family honour is concerned, is it ? "

Yes," he replied, taking up his cake
again.

Ah ! " she ejaculated incredulously. When
Lindley began to talk of the family honour he
lost weight directly.

'* I came here," he continued, with dignity,
on a mission of justice. I have been the
victim of so much injustice myself throughout
my life  partly perhaps through a certain recklessness
of the opinion of others, which may bea
fault in my character  that I can feel for
other victims of injustice, and exert myself
for them as no one has ever exerted himself
for me. When the victim is a woman, my
chivalry comes to the aid of my indignation,
and then I do not care to what misrepresentation
I lay myself open in my endeavour to
obtain justice for her."

'' And in this case justice means "

O

'' Charles's acknowledgment of his own
child."

Or of yours as his own ? "

Your suspicions are unworthy of your
discernment. What motive could I have for
such a suggestion ? "

"A very good one, or, at least, one quite
good enough for  for your purpose. Charles
has no heir. If he were to acknowledge this
girl as his legitimate child, he would leave all
he possesses to her ; and it may have occurred
to you that it is better to be the unacknowledged
father of the heiress to even such a poor
property as this than to be the acknowledged
father of a girl without a penny."

I repeat, Elizabeth, that I am not the
father of the girl in question at all. You don't
seem to know how old she is, to begin with.
Charles's daughter is twenty-two or twenty-three
at least."

"And you are forty-eight or forty-nine at
least, Lindley, though I acknowledge that you
don't look it by this light."

For he had changed his seat, and was now
sitting with his back to the windows. This

shaft Struck home ; his plump well-shaped
hands twitched and trembled, as they did when
anything moved him strongly. When he spoke
again, it was in a softly argumentative tone.

'' Do you think, Elizabeth, that it was anything
less than a statement of vital interest to
him which had such an effect upon Charles as
to strike him down with paralysis ? "

"No, I do not," she answered coolly. Then,
after a pause  '' You struck a little too hard ;
you made your statement a little too interesting
; for, if he should die, as the doctors fear,
without recovering power enough to speak, you
see all your efforts in the cause of the * victim
of injustice ' will be thrown away."

'' I hope not  I may say I am sure they
will not be. Charles has in his possession
written proofs "  and he looked at her very
fixedly  "of the truth of the story which, if
anything were to happen to him, I should
repeat to his executors ; and then, even if it
were too late for her to benefit pecuniarily by
the establishment of her true position, at least
the poor girl would be released," continued
Lindley, his tone rising to the occasion, " from

the Stigma which has long so unjustly lain upon
her."

Charles has written proofs, you say ?
How do you know that ? "

** Perhaps he told me ; perhaps I found out
from a different source. At any rate, I can
produce other proofs in support of them.
Besides," continued Lindley, in a more assured
tone, 'ewe may still hope that Charles will
recover, at any rate sufficiently to acknowledge
his child."

As I have told you, he is speechless, and
it is greatly to be feared that he will remain so
until his death, which cannot  so the doctors
are afraid  be far distant."

But he is conscious ; your man-servant
told me so."

Elizabeth's lips contracted with annoyance.

The sight of some one he was very fond
of," continued Lindley, growing warm, " might
give him temporary strength ; at least it could
not do him any harm. Well, then, let this girl
be brought into his presence ; let him be prepared
for her coming, if you please, and then
see what the effect will be."

*' x\re you dreaming ? Is it possible you
think I could be guilty of allowing a ghastly
experiment to be tried upon a dying man ? "

I do not believe, Elizabeth, that Charles is
dying. Whom have you had to see him ? A
pack of incompetent country practitioners quite
at sea in any case worse than measles or tooth-
ache. Now, in order to do my best to remedy
the evil I have so unhappily caused in breaking
my tidings to Charles too suddenly, I have sent
to town for a physician who is renowned for his
treatment of cases of paralysis  Doctor Led-bury;
and he has telegraphed that he will arrive
at Goldborough by the 2.25 express from Liverpool
Street ; he will be here by a little past six."

*' He shall not see Charles!" broke out
Elizabeth, vehemently. " No doctor of your
sending shall enter the house."

You cannot insult a man of the standing
of Doctor Ledbury," said Lindley quietly.

This was .undeniable. He was a man of
the highest rank in his profession. Elizabeth's
frame shook with rage.

You have taken a great liberty in sending
for him without consulting us ! "

'ein the case of the dangerous illness of a
member of my own family," LIndley argued
gravely, his brown eyes bright with triumphant
light, '' no effort I could make to restore him to
life and health could possibly be a liberty. i\s
it was I who sent for him, will you allow me to
be present when he arrives ? "

No," answered Elizabeth shortly ; '' I can
tell him all that is necessary. I am quite satisfied
that Doctor Foley and Mr. Crosse have
done all that is possible for poor Charles ; but,
as you have sent for Doctor Ledbury, I suppose
he must see him. At what time did you
say he would be here ? "

The train gets into Goldborough at

5-5I-"

*' Then I will send the carriage to meet
him. Eleanor wants to go to Goldborough ;
she can explain the case to Doctor Ledbury.
That will save time."

Eleanor's explanation was not likely to be
valuable ; but Lindley understood perfectly
well that this was only a measure of precaution
to prevent his meeting the great London
physician himself, and prejudicing his mind

in the case. He acquiesced in this arrangement,
however, having no excuse for upsetting
it. Then Elizabeth rose.

Now, I will have no tricks, LIndley," she
told him, growing more and more dissatisfied as
his satisfaction evidently increased. " Doctor
Ledbury shall see Charles ; and I hope that,
by the help of Heaven, he may be able to restore
him," she said in a hard voice, " though I fear
it is very unlikely," she added with Christian
resignation. " But, understand me, LIndley,
not at the instance of all the doctors In the
world will I allow poor Charles's last hours to
be disturbed by the presence of an intruder,
or any person whom I consider an Intruder.
I shall give orders that, after Doctor Ledbury's
arrival, no person shall be admitted into the
house upon any pretext whatever ; and I shall
take even stronger measures than that to enforce
my wishes  my resolves for my brother s peace.
So that, I warn you, it will be of no use for you
and the girl in whom you take such a nobly
unselfish interest to lurk about watching for an
opportunity of making an entrance, for I shall
be on the watch against any such attempt, and

I would bar the way, If necessary, with my own
person."

'' I swear," said LIndley, standing erect and
speaking most Impressively, " that I will make
no such attempt. It Is far from my wish to
increase the affliction which I have been the
unwitting means of bringing upon you. I feel
that affliction more acutely than any of you
on that account. It was In trying to repair the
injury done to an innocent girl that I was the
unhappy cause of this family calamity. I have
done my best to atone for that by sending for
Doctor Ledbury. I will now leave you, and
I can assure you that my prayer for poor
Charles's recovery shall not be wanting."

LIndley was always the first and generally
the only dupe of his own hypocrisy ; and he felt
at this moment what his melodious and full
voice expressed  a sentiment of deep and pious
compassion for the victim of his lofty motives.

Elizabeth, who had heard his last speech
without much attention, her mind occupied with
something more Important than Lindley's oaths
or Lindley's prayers, stopped him as he was
preparing to take leave.

After all, you had better stay, perhaps 
if you will. It is two o'clock; luncheon will be
ready directly ; and, if you know Doctor Ledbury

personally "

" I don't," interrupted Lindley ; '' I have
seen him once, and that is all. I really don't
think it is necessary for me "

'' Yes, yes ; perhaps it is better that there
should be a man in the house' she insisted, not
troubling herself to be complimentary in this
excuse for detaining her cousin at the Hall,
where, it had suddenly occurred to her, he would
be under her eye.

She grew warmer in her invitation as he
showed a wish to evade it, and at last she
prevailed over his reluctance ; and, to Eleanor's
surprise, the two who had hurled defiance at
each other the day before now came in to
luncheon together, apparently on the most
friendly terms. The elder sister was too much
puzzled and , almost alarmed by this mystery
to join much in the conversation ; but the other
two kept up an animated talk without her help.
Lindley suggested that the Vicar should be
sent for; and Elizabeth, wondering that this

proposal should have been left to him, agreed
to it, and went into the morning-room to write
a note as soon as they rose from table. When
she joined the other two in the drawing-room,
Eleanor was standing on the white hearthrug,
with her little woollen shawl round her shoulders,
shivering over the fire, while Lindley was standing
at one of the honos windows, welch he had
opened, speaking to a stupid-looking boy of
about twelve, who was employed from time to
time about the place to help the under-gardener.
Eleanor was looking frightened, without any
apparent reason : a breath of soft April air
coming across the wide room was scarcely
enough to cause alarm in the most sensitive
of elderly ladies ; and Lindley, leaning easily
against the window-frame, was only talking
about tulips. Elizabeth's sharp eyes glanced
from the one to the other ; but she could read
nothing more in either face.

'' This young gentleman will take your note,
Elizabeth," said he cheerfully, having already
assumed towards his imperious cousin the tone of
the affectionate and intimate companion of years'
standing. In his heart he knew that she was

tolerating his society that she might keep a
watch upon his movements ; but he preferred
to cheat himself into the belief that she was
not insensible to the charm of his presence ; and,
encouraged in his efforts to be entertaining by
that assumption, he was actually succeeding in
turning her tolerance into a sort of half-contemptuous
pleasure in his society. ''He says
he could find his way to the Vicar's blindfold ;
that he was there only last week * a-cleanin' of
the winders and a-weedin' of the garden '  so
you could not have a safer messenger."

So she would have thought herself, had he
not been Lindley's choice ; however, there
seemed to be really no cause for hesitation
about so simple a matter ; so she gave her
note herself to the boy, with the clear and
short instruction that he was to take it to the
Vicarage, and that there was no answer. The
Vicarage was only a few minutes' walk from
the park-gates.

Joe had not left the drawing-room window
to start on his errand ten minutes when there
Alas a ring heard ; and a few moments later
Johnson ushered in the Vicar. Elizabeth looked

VOL. I. 10

surprised  Mr. Bamber was by no means an
active man, and her request had not been
urgent. It was years since he had seen Lindley
Fielding ; but he knew him and was evidently
not surprised to meet him.

I got your note," said he to Elizabeth,
and yours "  turning to Lindley ; " so of
course I came at once."

Why had Lindley written ? What had
made him so anxious for the Vicar's coming ?

When he had expressed his condolences
very simply, Elizabeth led him upstairs to her
brother's room, not without an anxious glance
at her cousin, expressing the question, 'what
mischief will he contrive to do now ? "

They went very softly into the sick-room ;
but they had scarcely entered when the sound
of the closing of the drawing-room door woke
Elizabeth's quick suspicions ; and, after leading
the way to her brother's bedside and seeing
that he was conscious, she modestly retreated,
leaving the clergyman standing by the sick man,
while the old housekeeper, who was watching
at a little distance, respectfully rose and stood
while the Vicar remained.

Elizabeth found her cousin still safely in the
drawing-room, talking to Eleanor ; and she
wondered whether it was perhaps one of the
servants whom she had heard closing the door,
which always creaked in a manner not to be
mistaken. Was it a rtcse of Lindley's to draw
her downstairs ? she wondered, when, on her
going to meet the Vicar on his way from the
sick-room, he answered to her question whether
she had found her brother sensible 

'eyes; but much disturbed in mind. He
could not speak, though he tried very hard ;
but I gathered from his expression and slight
movements, in reply to my questions, that he is
very anxious  to see some one."

Elizabeth started, and her face changed
colour. This, then, was the explanation of
Lindley's manoeuvre  he had put the Vicar on
the track of certain questions to ask about that
miserable ofirl !

*' Don't you think," said the Vicar, hesitatingly
for he was extremely shy of interference in
family matters  " that at a time like this you
ought to  well, to yield to his wishes ? Don't
you think it would be better ? "

'' I am afraid, Mr. Bamber, that in this
matter my own idea of my duty forbids me todo
so."

But do you know who she is ? " asked the
Vicar slowly, his guttural rattling voice giving
added solemnity to the question.

'eyes, I do," she answered, with great
significance.

The Vicar looked at her, and then in front
of him.

'' Oh, very well ! " was all he said ; but his
tone made her feel uncomfortable. What was
he thinking ? What was he Sfoinor to do ?
Was he, too, on the enemy's side ? She watched
him walk, with his stooping, shambling gait
down the drive towards the park-gates, and
returned to the others with a mind full of
anxiety, and with the bitterest feelings against
the cunning Lindley, who was going through a
caricature of pastoral love-making with Eleanor.

Time dragged heavily until the hour came
for the carriage to start for Goldborough, to
meet the train by which the famous physician
was to arrive. Eleanor was very nervous at
having to o to meet him ; but her sister

insisted  she wanted some spy to see that no
message from Lindley should reach Doctor
Ledbury to prejudice or prepare him, as he had
done the Vicar. So the poor little lady went
off submissively in the barouche ; and the rival
conspirators were left to entertain each other.

It was a trying tete-astute. Their open
defiance exchanged for masked guard on each
other's movements, they tried to keep up a
conversation upon indifferent subjects, while
each slightest sound above or outside thrilled
them both  the debonair fluent man of the
world and the still handsome cold-faced woman
with the wild excitement of keen expectation.
Would this world-famed physician succeed in
restoring Sir Charles to speech ? If he should,
however temporary the restoration might be,
Elizabeth knew that Lindley would secure his
aim ; that, whether truly or falsely, the outcast
child who had so strangely come beneath the
roof of Waringham Hall would be acknowledged
by Sir Charles Otway as his own
daughter.

When Johnson brought in the lamp, they
both started guiltily ; and when at last they

heard the sound of hoofs and wheels coming
nearer and nearer to the house, Elizabeth drew
a sharp breath, and Lindley Fielding, less self-controlled,
started to his feet with staring eyeballs
and face moist with agitation.

In a few moments the bell rang ; the front
door was opened immediately, faint sounds in
the hall were followed by the flinging open of
the drawing-room door, as Johnson announced
solemnly 

Doctor Ledbury ! "

Lindley glanced stealthily at his cousin.
She looked cold, dignified, anxious ; but there
was in her face no doubt, no suspicion. Breathing
more freely, he too turned his eyes towards
the door as the physician entered.

CHAPTER VII.

The entrance of the celebrated Doctor Ledbury
into the drawing-room at Warlngham Hall
made a profound impression upon its occupants.
He was a man so striking in appearance that
this would, in a less degree, have been the case
even if the fate of almost every member of the
household had not hung upon the results of his
skill, which was about to be exercised upon the
master of Warlngham, now lying speechless
upstairs.

Doctor Ledbury was a man of tall and
commanding fio-ure, with fair hair and honor
well-trimmed tawny beard, handsome aquiline
nose, and blue eyes as cold and piercing as
those of Miss Elizabeth Otway herself. He
looked young for a man who had attained so
high a place in his profession, in spite of the

gold-rimmed spectacles he wore ; the only sign
by which it was possible to tell that the sleek
brilliancy of his appearance was the result, not
of youth, but of careful preservation, was in his
walk, which was measured and rather heavy,
not that of a young man. He spoke very little,
very slowly, and in a deep low voice, listened
gravely to Elizabeth's brief explanation of the
case he had been summoned to attend, and then
asked 

Result of some shock, I suppose ? "

I  I believe so."

'' You were not present ? "

'' No."

'' Any one present ? "

Elizabeth hesitated. The physician waited.
At last she said 

Yes, one person."

'' I was present at the time of Sir Charles's
seizure, Doctor Ledbury. I am his cousin.
Indeed, I am afraid it was a disclosure made
by me with unthinking suddenness which produced
on my poor cousin such lamentable
results," said Lindley, coming forward and
bowing to the great physician, who examined

him attentively through his gold-rimmed
classes.

What effect does your presence have on
him now ? "

They had to listen very closely to catch
the sense of the great man's words, so low did
he speak, besides having apparently a slight
difficulty of utterance.

'' I have not seen my cousin since his
seizure."

The doctor looked at him steadily, evidently
surprised.

You had better see him now. The sight
of you may have some effect. Kindly show
me the way."

His quiet manner was so authoritative that
Elizabeth, who had started at his suggestion,
dared not interfere. Fortune was with Lindley
still ; in powerless rage she had to witness his
triumphant departure from the room with the
physician. For one wild moment the thought
possessed her that this doctor, summoned by
Lindley, was in collusion with him ; but then
her reason told her that a man of his position
was above suspicion ; the next, the suspicion

flashed through her mind that this might not
be Doctor Ledbury at all, although she had
seen his telegram announcing the hour of his
coming ; but that idea had also to be dismissed
for nothing could be more unlike the bearing
of an impostor than the grave dignity and
assured manner of the man, whose shrewd
penetrating glance had exercised upon herself
a strange fascination. She was not surprised
when, having listened with straining ears to
the last sound of the footsteps of the two menas
they crossed the central hall and went up
the staircase, Lindley talking volubly all the
time, Eleanor entered the room, still wearing
her bonnet, and, coming close up to her sister
with tottering steps, whispered 

Oh, Elizabeth, he frightens me ! Oh, I
would not go through that drive again with him
for the world ! "

*why, what makes you afraid of him'*
He is neither old, ugly, nor ferocious, unless
he is very different en tete-astute from what
he is at other times. How did you meet
him?"

*' The London train came in just as I drove

Up, and a minute after he came out of the
station ; he was looking about ; so I guessed
who he was and spoke to him."

So, then, he frightened you coming along,
did he ? What did he say ? "

"He didn't say anything  at least he said
scarcely anything. He apologized to me for
opening his pocket-book, and he looked at it
and read and made notes in it nearly all the
time."

** Well, that was not very alarming."

Oh, but you don't know ! There was
something in the way he did it which seemed
to say that he did not want my company, and
that I ought not to have come. But it was
more than that, Elizabeth; he had a horrible
effect upon me ; he is one of those terribly
clever people who read one through and
through at a glance ; his eyes are like lancets.
If he were to come to attend me, I should die
at once, I know I should."

Indeed, I believe that a sillier doctor would
be quite as able to treat you successfully," said
her sister, drily.

Elizabeth was beginning to take courage

from her very confidence in this man's penetration
; he was not Hkely to be the dupe of such
a man as Lindley, nor at all the sort of person
to encourage dying delusions in his patient.
Nevertheless, she was restless and feverishly
impatient as time wore on and there was no
sound to be heard above. Sir Charles's bedroom
was over the smaller drawing-room. She
left the lamp and the fire and the place where
she and her sister usually sat, and, crossing to
the dim cold corner under the spot where her
brother lay, she listened in vain for some sound
overhead. At last her endurance gave way
and she softly opened the door ; after a few
seconds' hesitation, she glided softly and quickly
through the large, ill-lighted outer hall into
the small, worse-lighted inner one, where she
was stopped with a great shock by coming
suddenly against a motionless figure at the foot
of the staircase. She was in a state of such
nervous excitement that the meeting almost
forced a cry even from her resolute lips. It
was Johnson the man-servant.

What are you doing here ? " she asked
sharply.

'' Mr. Fielding told me to be about, ma am ;
he said he might want me," replied Johnson,
respectfully.

And since when have you taken your
orders from Mr. Fielding ? " she asked coldly,
but stung to fury by the discovery of the progress
this ne'er-do-well cousin, on the strength
of his secret, was making into the very heart
of the household affairs.

Johnson stood in a respectfully deprecatory
attitude, saying nothing.

"You need not wait any longer. I will
answer for your neglect of his orders to Mr.
Fielding," she said, in a hard, ironical tone ; and
she passed him and went upstairs.

Johnson, however, merely retreated to the
deep shadow of the oaken staircase until she
was out of sight, and then quietly returned and
took up his old position, waiting. He hated
Miss Elizabeth, he adored his old master, and
he would not have missed the smallest chance
of being near Sir Charles, or of serving him
when he was dying, for a regiment of cold-eyed
Miss Otwayss. So he stood mentally ejaculating,
" The old cat ! The old spy ! " as he

listened to his mistress's stealthy footsteps
outside her brother's door.

She was listening, with her head nearer and
nearer to the keyhole, to the sound of a long,
earnest recital of some kind, told in a whisper.
Who the speaker was, whether it was Lindley
or the physician, she could not tell. Closer and
closer she bent to the door handle, more and
more sharply she drew her breath as the sound
continued, until there was at last a pause ; and
then she heard her brother's voice, weak, indistinct,
but intelligible, saying 

"Yes, yes; I understand it all  all."
Great Heavens ! Then Lindley had not
overrated Doctor Ledbury's skill ; the physician
had, indeed, restored speech to the dumb man.
Her excitement, her feverish anxiety to know
what that passionately hissed-out tale was
which had been poured out into the sick man's
ear, overcame her self-control somewhat ; her
breath came quickly, her frame shook so much
that the hanoinor ends of the old-fashioned chain
she wore round her neck tapped against each
other with a faint noise. As she stooped to
look through the keyhole, it was suddenly

blocked by another inquiring eye on the other
side. Without further ceremony, she raised
herself and sharply turned the handle. It was
of no use  the door was locked.

'' Who is there ? " said Lindley's voice, very
quietly.

*' It is I, Elizabeth Otway," she answered,
in her grimmest tone.

'' Hush ! Don't speak so loudly ! " he
whispered back, in his sweetest manner.
*' Charles is much better ; he can speak. I
will come out and tell you all about it in a few
minutes ; but he must not be disturbed just
now ; Doctor Ledbury says it is a critical
moment."

That was true enough, as the tortured woman
knew. She stood there a moment irresolute,
panting like a tigress, with eyes fixed upon the
door in front of her, as if it needed but one
pang more of maddening anxiety to make her
force it open or tear it down ; then, without
another word to her enemy inside, she softly
withdrew, and creeping a few steps further
along the corridor, she opened the door of Sir
Charles's dressing-room. There was a candle

on the table, and beside it Mrs. Symes was
sitting, with her long, lean, sharp old face a
livid grayish hue from terror. Her mistress
passed the old woman, who had staggered
slowly to her feet, and tried the bedroom door.
It was locked, like the other.

** What does this mean ? " she asked, in a
low imperious tone, stepping back to the housekeeper's
side.

'' They have locked it, ma'am. He  the
doctor  sent me into this room, and told me
to wait "

She hesitated, shaking from head to foot.

'' And then ? " queried Elizabeth, on fire
with impatience.

Then I heard I heard "

Well, well, go on. You heard ? "

I heard Sir Charles's voice call out, ma'am,
quite strong and sudden."

'what did he call out ? '

I  I  I don't know, I was that dazed
like, I couldn't tell, ma'am," she stammered.

Well, well ; but was it words he said, or
only just a cry ? You remember as much as
that, don't you ? " asked Elizabeth, lapsing into

the winning, encouraging tones she could use
upon occasion.

I  I really couldn't tell you, ma'am. I
was just sitting there, and it took me unexpected
like, as I may say, and I know no more than
the child unborn what he did say."

*' Mr. Lindley has been speaking to you
since." This was not a question, but a confident
assertion, while the sharp eyes pierced
through the old woman's hesitancy like gimlets.

No-o  yes, ma'am."

A momentary confusion was a natural enough
result of that raking investigation. But Miss
Elizabeth had no mercy.

And he has been persuading you, ordering
you, bribing you not to repeat what you heard.
You see, Mrs. Symes, it is of no use for you
to attempt to deceive me ; you had better tell
me the whole truth at once."

'' Mrs. Symes ! " Lindley's voice here called
out from the bedroom.

'' Yes, sir," she answered, in a faltering
voice.

"Come here to the door. I want to speak
to you."

VOL. I. II

The old housekeeper glanced at Elizabeth,
who, anxious to hear what Lindley had to say,
signed to her to obey. But no sooner had
Mrs. Symes gone close to the bedroom door
and said in a low voice, " I am here, sir," than
the key was swiftly turned, the door opened,
and she was drawn quickly into the bedroom
by a hand laid upon her arm. As Elizabeth,
on the alert, crossed the room to follow, the
door was closed and the key again turned. She
knocked at once.

"Who is it ? " asked Lindley s voice.

It is I. I insist upon your letting me in ;
if Mrs. Symes can be admitted, why cannot I ?
What trick is this, to keep his nearest and
dearest relatives from my poor brother's bedside ?

Doctor Ledbury, I insist "

Suddenly the door was opened, and the
doctor himself appeared at it. Startled by his
unexpected presence at the entrance, over-awed
by the indignant solemnity of his manner and
by the magnetic power of his cold, keen eyes,
she broke off in the middle of her speech and
stood silently before him.

It is for me to insist here, madam," said hein

as low a voice as ever, but with authority
which subdued even her. " And I must insist
upon your making no further disturbance outside
my patient's door. Otherwise I will not
answer for the consequences."

Elizabeth could just see, behind the physician's
figure, the bed with her brother sitting
up in it, supported by pillows, and with Lindley
by his side. She could see too that the writing-table
which usually stood at the foot of the bed
was now at the side of it, and that the inkstand
was open. With the impulsive activity of a
girl, she instantly attempted to pass Doctor
Ledbury ; but he put up an arm like iron to
bar her entrance, and said, in a whisper that
absolutely awed her by a resolution superior
to her own 

I must request you to retire.'

She faltered, met his cruel eyes, and, struck
by a sudden fear of him, stepped back. The
door was instantly closed and locked.

Excited to something stronger than suspicion,
she left the dressing-room, but remained
in the corridor, listening, watching. And, after
a long low murmur of voices in the sick-room,

Lindley came out, went to the head of the
staircase, and, looking down into the dim hall
below, tapped softly on the carved oak bannisters
and beckoned. Johnson came up and was let
into the room, the door of which had been
locked the moment Mr. Fielding came out ;
then, before following the man-servant, Lindley
turned towards the dark corner where his cousin
had believed herself to be hidden.

I am sorry to have to keep you in the
dark, Elizabeth," said he, suavely ; " but it won't
be for very long now. Before this evening is
over, I shall have finished the performance of
a sacred duty, and justice will be satisfied."

*' Not until you are in prison, Lindley, for
your share In an infamous conspiracy," answered
she, maddened by the only half-repressed
triumph In his tone. *' You shall not benefit
by this day's work, if I have to beg for the
means of bringing you to justice."

It is not I, but others who will benefit by
my exertions, Elizabeth," said he, with infuriating
gentleness of remonstrance.

She will not, believe me. You have heard
of ' undue Influence ' perhaps ? "

Yes, I have heard of It, and more than
that, I have seen it used for nineteen years to
prevent Sir Charles from acknowledging his
daughter, and even in attempting to dissuade
him from educating her in a manner suitable to
her station."

With this impressive tirade, Lindley tapped
at the door, and was readmitted into the sickroom.


Elizabeth swept downstairs with head erect
and flashing eyes and shut herself into the
library. She had her brother's keys still in
her possession ; and, sitting down before the
bureau, she unlocked it with unsteady fingers,
and turned over the papers in passionate haste
until she found those relating to her brother's
adopted child and the extravagant expenses
into which the support of her had led him.
She read them over again with greedy eagerness
; every Item of expenditure seemed to eat
into her brain. Between her clenched teeth
she hissed out the sums he had paid to the
Misses Gretton for her food, her education, her
dress, even her pocket-money. Pocket-money !
This greedy vagrant had had sixpence a week

to waste before she was ten, while she and her
sister had only been allowed half that sunt
when they were twelve. But the later details
concerning Geraldine's school expenses and the
amount allowed her for dress were more:
appalling still.

There was some excuse for the bitterness
with which this lady, whose whole life had been
one lone struesfle with the wants of a rich
woman and the purse of a poor one, whom
nature had made extravagant and circumstances
mean, now found that, while she and her sister
had been wearing old bonnets trimmed and
gowns made up by their own maid, this unacknowledged
waif had been allowed a supply
of hats and frocks quite liberal for a schoolgirl's
wardrobe. She was naturally not inclined
to admit that her brother had as much right
to spend his money on the support of an
abandoned child as some of his neighbours,
little richer than he, had to keep yachts and
hounds and to indulge in still more expensive
pleasures. She was even less ready to allow
that it was a harmless and a generous whim.
She could see nothing in the act of adopting

the child, with its concomitant cares and
expenses, but a long tale of treachery and
extravagance ; nothing in the papers before
her but the records of a crime ; nothing in
the girl herself but a dangerous, a fatal enemy
to be encountered, defeated, and crushed.
Lindley s ingeniously forsaken child to be installed
as mistress at Waringham, as Lindley
himself was contriving at this moment! If
Doctor Ledbury were twenty physicians to
testify to Sir Charles's soundness of mind when
making his will  she knew what was the business
going on upstairs  she would find means
of fighting Lindley, of breaking down his
story, falsehood by falsehood, and of proving
that her brother had never been married.

Only a momentary doubt on this last point
troubled her, though the papers now before her
showed that he could be more reserved than
she had believed ; but she had stronger reasons
than his own word for her reliance on the fact
that he had always been a bachelor. Although
he had been stationed with his regiment abroad,
as well as in different parts of Britain, he had
never been out of family surveillance, through

the fact that his Colonel was an old friend and
correspondent of the late Sir James, his father.
The possibility that the girl might still be her
brother's child she admitted ; but she had little
to fear except from the establishment of the
girl's legitimacy.

She was still poring over the evidences of
her brother's treachery and deceit when a ring
at the front-door bell made her start nervously.
It seemed to her that it was some time before
she heard Johnson's step returning from the
front-door, and Johnson's voice saying, in a tone
full of sympathy and respect 

'' Will you come in here, ma'am  into Sir
Charles's study ? Miss Eleanor, one of Sir
Charles's sisters, ma'am, is in the drawing-room."

He turned the study door handle ; but the
door was locked.

A harsh voice said slowly from within the
room 

What is it ? "

A young lady wishes to speak to you,
ma'am, upon something very important."

Show the young lady into the drawing-rooms'*


Geraldine shrank back at the sound of the
voice, and the servant whispered respectfully 

'' Won't you go back, ma'am ? Indeed, it
is of no use. You had better not see her ; poor
Sir Charles would not wish it."

For Johnson knew Miss Geraldine, and
knew her history too.

But the girl, whose face was white with
grief, while her eyelids were heavy with crying,
answered falteringly 

'' I must, I must, Johnson ! It is my only
chance, you know ; " and the young voice
quavered on the last words.

Very reluctantly he led the girl through
the dark halls, where the shadows of huge
antlers on the walls flickered grimly in the dim
lamplight, and dusty old portraits looked down
solemnly upon her out of their heavy frames, to
the drawing-room.

And, as he ushered her into the long cold
apartment, where one lamp at the other end
made a little circle of liszt in the vault-like
darkness, the sound of an old woman's sobbing
was the Qreetinor which met her ears.

CHAPTER VIII.

When the Vicar of Waringham left the Hall
after his visit to Sir Charles and his futile
endeavour to induce Miss Elizabeth Otway to
accede to her dying brother s wishes, he walked
through the park and along the meadow-path
which led to the Vicarage, a good deal disturbed
in mind. Lindley Fielding had, indeed,
as his cousin Elizabeth had guessed, suggested
in his note to Mr. Bamber certain questions
concerning the young lady under Miss
Gretton s care ; and the signs and efforts to
speak which Sir Charles had made in answer
let in a flood of light on to the position of the
girl and the baronet's wishes with regard to
her. He was very shy of interference in his
capacity of spiritual adviser ; but when the.
temporal interests of an amiable, accomplished,.

bright-faced crlrl were Involved, the Vicar felt
uneasy as to whether, as a neighbour as well
as a Christian, some action other than a prayer
for Sir Charles's spiritual welfare were not
required of him.

At the door of his home he met his son
Reginald, just returned from a drive into Gold-borough
in the Vicar s Norfolk cart.

Hallo ! Is it true you have been to the
Hall, father ? Did you see Sir Charles ? "

Yes. Come into the study a moment ;
I want to speak to you."

The Vicar had great respect for the judgment
of his son, who was a tall, dark, handsome
man, With so much natural dignity of manner
that his very silence was Impressive, even when
It arose from the fact of his having nothing
to say, while the grave and courteous attention
which he always gave to any matter upon
which his opinion was asked added to his
decision double value.

There Is a very mysterious state of things
up at the Hall now," rattled out the Vicar,
solemnly. He had entirely lost his voice a
couple of years ago, and had since been compelled

to give up all share in the services of his
little church.

Indeed ! " said Reginald.

"Yes, very mysterious. Nobody seems to
know who is who. Lindley Fielding, that
good-for-nothing cousin of theirs they had
always such a difficulty in getting rid of, has
installed himself there as friend of the family ;
Elizabeth Otway evidently considers him nothing
of the kind. He and Sir Charles both
seem to agree that the pretty, good little Miss
Geraldine Lindley is Sir Charles's legitimate
daughter, while Elizabeth "

His legitimate daughter! " broke in Reginald.
'then, why hasn't he acknowledged
her before ? "

"That is the mystery. He said he didn't
know it and referred me to Lindley. But then
Lindley is such a liar   "

But, for the girl's sake, it is most important
that this should be cleared up. Where is
Lindley ? At the Hall still ? " asked Reginald,
his tone deepening to a grave interest, which
was the nearest approach to violent excitement
he usually showed.

Yes ; but wait a minute. There is something
I want to ask you. Sir Charles wishes
to see the girl ; Elizabeth won't let her be sent
for. But it seems to me that, in such a case as
this, if a sick man's relatives don't do their duty,
his friends ought to step in and do it for them.
You know how I hate interfering, and It would
be as useful to preach Christian charity to the
chairs as to Elizabeth Otway ; but, at the same
time "

ril go over to Copsley myself at once and
fetch her," said Reginald, really excited now.
Bob can't have been unharnessed set.
Whether she is his daughter or not, we know
he is devotedly fond of her, and his dying wish
ought to be respected."

But think what we are doing, Reginald.
Through his unfortunate reticence, the girl
herself doesn't know who she is, or anything
about the household at the Hall. Elizabeth
is not likely to receive her kindly, and shock
after shock will come upon the poor child
at once."

'they have begun to come already, father ;
the sooner she knows the worst the better for

her. Lindley Fielding himself began the work
yesterday ; I found Miss Lindley in tears and
great distress after a conversation with him.
I told her to console her that I knew him to
be an unscrupulous liar ; but it is possible he
may have found some scrap of truth to serve
his purpose this time. However, whatever
he told her, it was something which distressed
her very much."

It would naturally, coming upon her so
unexpectedly. But, remembering the signs
Sir Charles made to me yesterday when I
talked to him upon this very subject, I cannot
help thinking Lindley's assertion may possibly
be true. So I think there can be no harm in
fetching her, and she can spend the night here
if necessary. Tell Miss Gretton so, and I will
speak to your mother about it."

And, delighted to be relieved of the active
part of the affair, the Vicar hurried his son off,
and returned to the meditations in the study
which occupied the greater part of his time.

Reginald Bamber drove fast along the road
to Copsley. His father's words had suggested
a possibility which would be the realization of

the wish which was nearest to his heart at the
present time. If Geraldine Lindley  pretty,
bright, graceful, highly cultivated Miss Lindley
were really Geraldine Otway, then there
could not be in the whole world a more ideally
perfect woman for him to wed and to carry
back with him in triumph to New York, as a
living, charming proof to his American friends
of the assertion he had always maintained
that, for beauty without artifice, grace without
coquetry, and intelligence without self-assertion,
English girls of the higher classes were without
rivals. It was due to his self-esteem that he
should present to those friends some such
vindication of his rather marked indifference
to the beauties of their fellow-countrywomen.
Reginald resolved that he would not unnecessarily
alarm Miss Lindley by informing her at
once of the serious nature of Sir Charles's
illness ; he would merely state that the baronet
had sent for her, and would then, as he drove
her to Warlngham, do his best to advance his
own claims to her notice and secure a firm place
in her remembrance.

On arriving at Heathcote House, however,

he learnt that Miss Lindley was out ; so,
saying that he would call again, and hearing
that she had gone towards the moor, a desolate
outlying part of the parish where some of the
very poorest of the cottagers lived, he drove in
that direction, in the hope of meeting her.

But Geraldine was in the mean time returning
homewards by a footpath across the
meadows, walking very fast, lest dusk should
come on and her nervous guardian be angry at
her delay. She reached the house soon after
Reginald Bamber left it. Miss Gretton called
her at once into the drawing-room. Geraldine
thought she was to be catechized as to whether
she had committed the grave risk and impropriety
of crossing the fields alone so late in the
afternoon, and prepared a penitential face like
a child. She had been kept curiously young
for her age in many ways by the fussy dictatorship
of her old maiden guardian, and
one of the signs of this was the juvenile
submission she showed to her irritating little
ordinances, like a model child, and the crestfallen
humility she showed when she had disregarded
one of them. But Miss Gretton, with

the slow Steps to which her active frame was
now condemned, led her into the lamplight and
looked down over her spectacles, as was her
manner, into the girl's bright young face and
candid eyes.

Some one has been here asking to see
you," began the old lady, rather severely. Not
that she disapproved of Reginald Bamber, whom
she, on the contrary, considered to be the ideal
of manly perfection ; but the undying instinct of
the schoolmistress that admiration and admirers
were things to be kept out of the heads of
young people unconsciously influenced her tone.

My guardian ! " cried Geraldine, her face
alight with pleasure in a moment.

No ; not Sir Charles  a young gentleman."

Geraldine grew anxious, and her face fell.
Was it the stranger with two names, whose
cruel revelations and suggestions had tormented
her since yesterday ?

Miss Gretton watched the young face
curiously.

It is Mr. Reginald Bamber," said she.

Geraldine blushed, as an inexperienced girl
always does under an examination of this kind,

VOL. I. 12

whether her heart Is interested in the subject
of it or not. But to Miss Gretton's watchful
eyes this blush pleaded " Guilty," and she
Instinctively continued, in a more severe tone
than before 

*' He Is going to call again."

Indeed, Miss Gretton ! What does he
want ? Did you see him ? "

'' No ; he asked after me, but would not
disturb me, as he knows the afternoon Is the
time I devote to  letter-writing," said the old
lady, with an irresistible twinkle In her eyes.

So he Is going to call again when he
thinks you have finished  writing your letters ? "
said Geraldine, too Innocently.

** Geraldine "  more sharply than ever  '' it
Is you, and not I, Mr. Bamber is coming to
see !

"Well, Miss Gretton ? " She was now quite
audaciously Indifferent.

'' Well, my dear," answered the old lady,
brought to the point, and relapsing Into friendliness
 "well, do you like him ? "

Oh yes, he Is very nice ! "

Very nice ! You need not speak of him in

that patronizing tone, as if there were a hundred
gentlemen about whom you liked just as well."

'well, so there are. At least  no, not a
hundred ; but there are a few. There is 
there  let me see  there is Mr. Meadows ! "

''Mr. Meadows! Why, Mr. Meadows is
a married man! You cannot admire Mr.
Meadows ? "

Oh, you didn't say ' admire ! ' No ; he is
not so good-looking as Mr. Bamber."

Now, Geraldine, this is affectation ! You
know very well that there is not in the whole
county a man so handsome, so well-bred, or so
highly cultivated as Mr. Bamber !"

"You admire him more than I do, Miss
Gretton."

You don't deserve him. I have a great
mind to cut you out."

You are quite welcome to do so, as far as
I am concerned," said Geraldine, with ever-increasing
indifference, which was rather exaggerated.


Ah, you wouldn't be quite so generous if
I were half a century or so younger  would
you ? "

Geraldlne laughed, and laid her head affectionately
on the old lady's shoulder.

Not quite, perhaps. But really I should
care less than you think."

** Would you ? You seemed very much
excited yesterday when you came in and confessed
to having met Mr. Bamber in the
churchyard."

'' Oh yes ; but  but he had not been 
been "

Making love to you ? "

No, not at all."

"Well, it won't be long before he does, I
fancy ; but I must confess that I don't think
you could easily have made a better choice,
my dear."

But I haven't chosen him. You are so
impetuous, Miss Gretton ; you can't call it
choosing ' to take the only man Who wants you,
for one thing ; and I am not at all sure that he
does not want me, for another ; and I am still
less sure that I want him."

Why, what does the girl want ? Do you
expect a prince to marry you ? "

No ; but Well, you know, it is a thing

one can't talk about, it sounds so absurd, and
you would say I had been reading novels and
had picked up silly ideas. But I do think one
ought to  well, one ought to feel something 
I don't know exactly what, but something
different from  from anything else in fact 
for the man one  well, one wants to marry."

Rubbish, my dear ! That is the very
mistake all young girls make. They think
they want an idol, when all they want is a
husband. My advice to every young girl is
this : when a well-born, well-bred, honourable
gentleman, good-looking enough not to frighten
you, and well-read enough to be a companion
to you, asks you to be his wife  take him, and
thank Heaven for your good fortune."

'' Then, why didn't you give me this advice
before. Miss Gretton, find out my ideas upon
the subject, and try to change them into yours,
instead of waiting until  until mine have grown
so strong that  that I think it would be very
difficult to change them, even if you were to
persuade me that they were silly  as perhaps
they are," she added, only half-lightly.

*' Geraldine," said Miss Gretton, looking

affectionately and solemnly Into the girl's face,
'' There may be some truth in what you
say ; the imagination of a young girl is a
difficult thing to deal with, and perhaps we
shirk the control of it too much. But don't let
it run away with you, my dear ; believe me,
you will find it difficult for your imagination
to picture to you a man more worthy of your
love than Reginald Bamber ; besides, he is
handsome too, as very few good men are, I
assure you. What fault can you possibly find
in him ? "

'' Well, he is rather too perfect ; he frightens
me, and  and chills me a little. If I were to
marry him, life would be one long fatiguing
effort to live up to a standard above me."

But, my dear child, what could be more
blameless than your life ? And surely your
life is not a long fatiguing effort now ? "

The girl kept her eyes down ; so the
eloquent flash in them which would have given
her old instructress an unexpected and most
appalling answer was unseen.

'' No, no, of course not," she answered, laughing
constrainedly; 'but, if I were married, I

think I should Hke to be able to tell my husband
my thoughts  say them right out at once without
thinking first, you know. Well, I should never
dare to tell half my thoughts to a man like
Mr. Bamber ; I should have a feeling that
every  every unorthodox suggestion would jar
upon him, and  and put the wheels out of order.
Do you understand what I mean ? "

Well, I understand ; but I think you are
mistaken. A man like that, a superior man, a
man of judgment and sense, would have more
consideration than you think. And he would
listen to you quite quietly, and make allowance 
loving allowance for your errors, and put you
gently right where you were wrong."

'' That is just what I am afraid of ! " burst
out Geraldine, with vehemence which startled
Miss Gretton, who, having hitherto treated
the subject of the affections with her charge only
in an abstract and Dry-adust sort of way, was
not prepared for the intensity of the interest
the girl showed in the matter when it was
treated of more personally. " I don't want a
superior being who will stand over me through
life with a benignantly superior smile, and

indulgently listen to my hasty opinions and
considerately point out my faults and mistakes
to me. I am not a child now, to be handed
over without having a voice in the matter from
one trustworthy guardian to another. I am
twenty-two ; I have been a woman longer than
you seem to think ; I do know my own mind
in this matter, and I don't want some one to
lecture me, but some one to love me, and I
would rather have the love without the lectures.
I am tired of being guided ; I want to guide
myself."

But, my child, my child, it is woman's lot
and woman's blessing to be guided and guarded
through life. A woman is not fitted for rough
struggling with fortune, and, believe me, life
is a very sad thing for a girl, brought up as you
have been, when she is cast upon the world to
make a way for herself as best she can."

Miss Gretton spoke very solemnly. Warned
by Sir Charles, she had never before spoken
to Geraldine of the possibility of her having
some day to earn her own living ; but now the
girl's own words opened her mouth.

But it hasn't been your lot to be guided.

Miss Gretton, and I'm sure it would not have
been a blessing to you."

Geraldine said this rather archly, for it was
undeniable. The old lady was obliged to
smile.

*' I was always plain, my dear ; and that
whatever we may say to very young girls on
the subject, makes all the difference in the
world in a woman's life. It decreases its
dangers, perhaps, but it certainly gives it in an
altogether different course. I used once to
think of the education of the young as a possible
career for you ; but I must acknowledge, my
dear, that for some years at least you will find
grave difficulties in the way, even if Sir Charles
would agree to it ; and he would certainly not
do so. Indeed, if your guardian's wishes have
any weight with you  and I know they have 
I can assure you that nothing would give him
so much pleasure as to know that your future
was In such safe hands as those of Reginald
B amber."

There it is aaln ! Safe hands  I don't

o

want to be in safe hands. Oh, Miss Gretton,
do you know that I often feel like a wild bird

caught and imprisoned ? I feel such a mad
longing sometimes to break away from this
house, from Copsley, even from you and my
guardian  just for a little while, only a little
while, to go among crowds and bustle and noise
and  and dangers. You see you have taught
me and counselled me and warned me, and
filled me with knowledge and with precepts,
and prepared me to meet every danger, moral
and physical, which could possibly come upon
me ; and it is all thrown away, because I
never meet any. And it seems such a pity 
doesn't It ? "

Miss Gretton did not attempt to check her,
but listened with an earnest attention which
encouraged the girl to pour out her whole
heart. But the old lady was struck with
apprehension on finding the wild nature of the
vagrant  so it seemed to her  just as strong as
ever, after nineteen years of careful cultivation
under the manner and form of the accomplished,
graceful lady. Geraldine continued
more and more impetuously 

I don't know whether other cr'irh feel as I

o

do -I don't think they can, or the world would

be full of runaways ; for they haven't all the
ties of love and kindness which keep me still
quietly here. I want something to do, something
to spend my energies upon, something to
tire me. If I could only go to balls like other
girls, and dance till my feet ached ! I do dance
like that by myself sometimes  in the room
where the birds are. I feel a wild craving  not
for excitement, for I get into such a fever with
that by myself that very often I can't sleep or
keep still, but for something for my excitement
to feed upon, some work, some action. Do you
understand me ? Why, I have frightened you ;
your dear old hands are trembling ! Don't
mind what I've said ; oh, I'm so sorry, so sorry !
I don't mean it all ; I have only been teasing
you. Forgive me, do forgive me, there's a
kind old darling ' "

But her caresses could not comfort Miss
Gretton, who had heard in the girl's passionate
tones and read in her flashing brown eyes
warnings of future danger for her headstrong
nature, against which all the mild precepts and
daily texts with which she had been sedulously
furnished would prove but a weak shield.

Almost for the first time, Miss Gretton got an
insight into what that inner life was which the
girl's natural reserve had kept concealed all
these years. That spiritual life, the absence
of which both the elderly ladies had deplored
in their otherwise blameless charge, was replaced
by a feverish energy of imagination, more
earthly, more dangerous. She had nothing
ready to say to the girl impressive enough to-suit
the needs of the occasion ; so she received
her kisses and her retractation almost in silence,,
resolved to appeal for advice to the Vicar of
Copsley, the Reverend William Cox, a kind old
gentleman who was reported to be able to tell
the exact number of words in any given chapter
of the Bible. Geraldine was surprised by the
mildness with which her outbreak had been
received by her old instructress, who had often
treated less serious ones more severely ; but
Miss Gretton felt that the case was too grave
for scolding, or even for reproach, and she was.
glad when the announcement of *' Mr. Reginald
Bamber " allowed her to shelve the subject
for further consideration when she should be
alone.

Reginald broached the object of his visit
very cautiously, to avoid alarming either of the
ladies. It was not until after a little talk about
the surprising coldness of the weather for the
last two days, and everybody's hopes that the
late frost would not injure the budding trees,
that he mentioned that Sir Charles did not feel
well enough to leave the house, and that, as he
wished to see his ward, Reo[-inald himself had
offered to drive her to Waringham, and had
come to beg Miss Gretton to trust her to his
care. This announcement caused both ladies
much agitation ; the old lady guessed at once
that nothing but severe illness would have led
Sir Charles to take this step ; the young one
felt that the moment had come when all the
mystery about herself would be cleared away.
Reginald asked Miss Gretton, in his mother's
name, to allow Geraldine to stay at the
Vicarage until next day, when he promised to
bring her back safely to Copsley. The girl had
left the room to prepare for the drive, and the
old lady took the opportunity of asking whether
Sir Charles's illness was not more serious than
he had admitted.

Yes, I am afraid so," he gravely answered,

Poor Geraldine ! " murmured the old lady,
not without a shrewd intention of drawing-forth
a reassuring answer. She succeeded.

'' I don't think you need alarm yourself
about the future of of Miss Lindley," said he
gently, looking gravely at his hat. " From
what I have heard, I believe she will be  er 
provided for."

And, leaving her in the dark as to whether
he himself or Sir Charles would be Geraldine's
good providence, he rose as the young girl
re-entered the room. She was much excited,
and the additional brightness and colour which
impatience and anxiety gave to her face made
her so lovely in his eyes that he felt tempted
to make the plunge on his way with her to
Waringham, instead of prudently waiting to see
whether Sir Charles really would acknowledge
her as his daughter. Fortunately, the girl
herself saved him from such a rash act. This,
her first visit to her guardian's home for nineteen
years, was an occasion full of solemn
interest, of eager yet timid anticipation to her,
little as she guessed how deeply her fortunes

were involved in it. There were several things
she must find out first.

'' Is it far ? " she asked timidly, when they
were well on their way, the Vicar's cob trotting
fast along the hard roads, between the budding
hedges, whose scanty covering of pale leaf and
white blossom could no longer be distinguished
in the gathering dusk of the April afternoon.

To Waringham ? No, not far ; we shall
be there very soon. Are you tired of  of the
drive already ? "

His voice was naturally so sweet that even
this speech sounded like an avowal of love.
But Geraldine's mind was far too much absorbed
in Warinoham Hall and its master to notice
this.

Oh, no, not tired, not tired at all ! But I
I have never been to Waringham ; at least
I I think not."

'' You think not ? "

'eyes. I should have said the day before
yesterday I was sure not ; but since then I have
heard some things which have set me thinking,
and I have been trying to remember as far back
as I can and Is there the skin of some

animal, lion, tiger  I don't know what  on the
floor of one of the rooms ? "

'' There is a lion's skin with the head on in
Sir Charles's library, I believe."

" And is there at Waringham Hall a woman,
a lady  I don't know who  with a very disagreeable,
repellant face ? " she asked hesitatingly.


Oh, yes  several ! "

'' Several ? " echoed poor Geraldine.

'' Why, yes ; I think you must prepare yourself
for a remarkable absence of feminine charm
in every member of your sex whom you will
meet there i Tom and Percy, my brothers at
Shrewsbury, call the Hall the ' Witches'
Cavern ' ! "

Oh, not really ! And my poor guardian
lives there ! How many w  witches are
there ? "

Well, there are his two sisters "

Two sisters!" faltered Geraldine. Another
of the strange-er's statements was true, then.

'' Yes ; I think they are the worst ; but some
people think even they are less alarming than
the housekeeper, Mrs. Symes. Fortunately, the

rest of the women-servants, of whom one hears
dreadful accounts, are seldom seen by visitors."

'' It doesn't sound like a very cheerful place,"
said Geraldine, doubtfully.

It is quite an enchanted castle of horrors,
to my mind ; so I warn you to be stout-hearted,
Miss Lindley. Its very aspect as we drive upto
it will depress you, and it has an atmosphere
of gloom and decay in which you will need all
your fortitude, especially at such a time as this."

Geraldine was silent ; it began to dawn upon
her that she would find her guardian very ill 
far worse than she had expected. At last, after
trying to speak once or twice, she found voice
to say, almost in a whisper 

Mr. Bamber, you would not deceive me
about this, would you ? It would be too 
terrible ! He is  not  dead ? "

'' No, no," said Reginald, very gently.
*' Don't be alarmed ; he is very ill ; but he is
alive, and very, very anxious to see you."

The girl drew a convulsive, sobbing breath.

Drive fast, fast, please," she whispered.

And he touched the cob with the whip ashe
looked down reverently at the young face

VOL. I. 13

beside him, which wore an expression of intense
agony that would have softened a heart
of stone. After a short silence, she said, in a
low voice 

They are kind to him  his sisters  now ? "

I suppose they are, in their fashion." She
shivered. He continued, reassuringly, 'sir
Charles is used to them, and he would not
expect more tenderness from them than they
can give."

"How can they help being tender to him 
his own sisters too ! They can't be human ! "

Yes, they are human, though perhaps they
don't belong to the best type of humanity.
One must make allowances for them ; they are
old and poor and rather selfish, and they depend
entirely on their brother, I believe ; so, if you
find them rather hard and disagreeable, you
must not mind, you know."

I don't mind what they are like to me  at
least, yes I do," said she, with a sudden change
to nervous fear; ''I hope they won't say anything
unkind to me," she faltered.

'' How could they ? " exclaimed Reginald.
Then he quickly added, 'what could they say? "

*' I  don t  know ; perhaps they are angry
with my guardian for being so fond of me.
You see he has been just like a father to me ; I
could not love him a bit better if he were my
father," she declared, her voice breaking.

Reginald was silent. It was clear that she
herself had not the least idea of there being
any relationship between her and her guardian.
Ought he to prepare her ? One thing at least
she must learn.

You remember the gentleman who spoke
to you in the churchyard yesterday ? " he asked
presently. "He is a cousin of Sir Charles'*
she started  " and I expect you will find him
at the Hall."

Geraldine uttered a faint cry. The whole
aspect of her visit to Waringham was suddenly
changed to her ; it had become shadowed with
unknown terrors.

Oh, Mr. Bamber, do you know anything ?
Can you tell me anything ? I am walking so
blindly ; and to have to meet that man, whom I
fear and almost hate  already frightens me ! "

'' I know nothing," he replied; "but you may
learn something to-night, not from Lindley

Fielding  who, by-the-by, was the cause of Sir
Charles's illness  but from your guardian himself."


The park gates were now in sight ; Reginald
pointed to the lodge.

That is the Hall," he said in a low voice.

A man was standing by the gates ; but he
slunk away as the little cart drove quickly up.

'' Just the same, sir, by the last accounts,"
said the lodge-keeper, in answer to Reginald's
inquiry, as he opened the gates.

And they drove on fast towards the house,
which, standing square and gray in the evening
mist, with only one dim light here and there
showing faintly and flickering through the
blinds, made an impression even stronger than
Reginald had predicted on the trembling girl.

Keep up your courage ! " whispered he, as
after ringing the bell, he helped her down from
the cart. "Ask boldly to see Sir Charles.
Don't, if you can help it, see any one else first.
You know Johnson, Sir Charles's old servant,
don't you ? "

Oh yes ! "

Johnson had often brought messages and

fruit and flowers to the ladies at Heathcote
House, having been selected for that, in addition
to his many other duties, as a special mark
of his master's favour. So that, when he
opened the door, Geraldine thankfully greeted
him as a friend in this gloom-haunted house,
whose sepulchral aspect had already added
terror to the grief in her heart. But even
Johnson caused her another alarm, for he
started at sight of her, and whispered 

'' You, Miss Geraldine ! " in a tone which
caused her for a moment to lose the power of
speech.

'' Take this young lady to Sir Charles ;
don't let any one frighten her," said Reginald's
soft measured tone. Then he took her hand
and pressed it reassuringly. '* I will come
back for you in an hour or two," said he, kindly,
'' and take you to my mother. Miss Lindley
will pass the night at the Vicarage, Johnson,"
he added to the old butler, with a last injunction
 " Take care of her."

Geraldine made a gesture as if to call him
back, as she saw him, her last friend of the
living outside world, step into the little Norfolk

cart, raise his hat, and drive away, leaving her
alone, stricken with a hundred fears, on the
threshold of this house which she had so longed
to see, which now seemed to her to be haunted
with terrors worse than death. For she could
not realize that she would find her guardian,
the gentle, smiling guardian he had always
been to her  here.

'' I want to see him, Johnson ; will you take
me to him ? " she asked like a child. "He has
sent for me."

"I can't. Miss Geraldine ; there's a strange
doctor, a great doctor from London with him,
and Mr. Fielding his cousin ; they won't let
anybody Into Sir Charles's room."

Oh, but they will let me see him, I think ;
tell him I'm here ! Can't you tell him, Johnson
? Oh, do, do, please ! I know you can ;
he Is so fond of you."

Indeed I can't. Miss Geraldine. You
know well enough I'd help you If I could."

But I must see him : If you won't take me
to him, I'll hunt about for his room by myself
Oh, you must know he wants to see me ! "

Indeed, I know that well enough ; but I
don t see Well, I'll try."

Geraldlne had advanced from the cold
stone-paved entrance-hall to the first of the
inner halls, which was scarcely warmer, scarcely
lighter. A bold idea had crossed her mind ;
there was nothing for it but boldness now.

'where are Sir Charles's sisters, Johnson?"
she asked, as a boy asks for the master who
has promised to cane him.

Oh, Miss Geraldine, you can't see them ! "
cried the butler, in alarm.

'' I must, I must ; which must I see ? "

'' Oh, it will be Miss Elizabeth ; but don't,
I beg of you, Miss Geraldine. I believe she
she'll eat you ! " said he, encouragingly.

'' I can't help that ; I must see her."

Johnson reluctantly advanced to the study
door, which he found locked ; and Miss Elizabeth's
own hard voice told him to 'show the
young lady into the drawing-room."

Trembling from head to foot, but strung up
by the need of all her courage, of all her untried
eloquence in this dreaded meeting, Geraldine
followed Johnson through the creaking door
into the gloomy chilling vastness of the
drawing-room.

CHAPTER IX.

As the sound of low sobs met her ear, before
she could see any human being besides herself
in the room, Geraldine was seized with a
childish impulse to open the door and run away
again ; and as, conquering this feeling, she
advanced into the second and larger room, and
a little lean old woman, with bead-like black
eyes and a bent shrunken figure, sprang up
from the sofa by the fireplace and peered at her
from behind the lamp on the table, the girl
shuddered with an eerie superstitious feeling
that she was really under the influence of some
evil enchantment. For no hag versed In witchcraft
ever looked more weirdly uncanny than
poor harmless Miss Eleanor, as she took up
her silver-headed crutch with Its tapering stick,
and moved feebly forward a few paces, her

furrowed, leather-coloured face still further disfigured
by weeping, blinking anxiously In the
lamplight In her endeavour to make out the
features of the intruder. Involuntarily Geraldine
made a step back.

Who is it ? " asked a thin querulous voice.

The sound was human at least ; and detecting
In the sharp nervous tone the reassuring
fact that the witch was afraid of her, Geraldlne
recovered her self-possession, and said gently 

I am afraid I have disturbed you ; I am
very sorry. My name is Geraldlne LIndley."

The decrepit old lady gave a gasp of horror.
She had come close to the girl by this time,
and she now put her little thin claw-like hand
upon Geraldine's arm and looked up Into the
fair young face with a nervous devouring
scrutiny In which, however, there was no
conscious unkindness. The girl felt this, and
smiled as she bent her head towards the ugly,
anxious, withered features, which had already
lost their terrors.

'' It Is a good face ! " said the old lady at
last, betraying ingenuously some surprise. She
had never seen the baby-waif since the day the

latter left the Hall till this the day of her
return ; and her imagination had followed her
sister's representations so dutifully that she
had unconsciously expected to see greed and
avarice and every selfish vice stamped on the
features of this hungry vampire who was living
on the very life-blood of the Otwayss. And to
find that the vampire bore the likeness of a
beautiful girl of good and gentle manners gave
Miss Eleanor a shock, whether of pain or of
pleasure she hardly knew.

'* Oh, Miss Otway, do let me see Sir
Charles ! I am so fond of him  you don't
know how fond of him ! Do please let me
see him ! "

My dear, it Is of no use to ask me ; you
must ask my sister Elizabeth. And I am
afraid it will be of no use to ask her either.

She  er  she Oh, dear, I wish she would

come ! She sees to everything ; I am an
invalid. But I think, If I were you, my dear, I
would not ask her. And yet I don't know,"
she added doubtfully, looking up again Into the
face which was gaining upon her heart more
and more, and wondering for one brief moment

whether the sight of this ray of youth and loveliness
might not soften Elizabeth too. But her
common sense returned in an instant ; and she
said, plucking at the girl's sleeve with disconcerting
nervousness, and dropping her voice to
a croaking half-whisper, '' My dear, who told
you to come ? It is a pity you have come ; it
is, indeed ! It is not that I wish to be unkind
to you, my dear ; In other circumstances I am
sure I should have liked you very much ; but
you see it Is rather awkward for everybody
isn't it ? And Elizabeth, my sister. Is very 
very just, and she has a way of saying what
she thinks in a very straightforward manner,
which, perhaps, might  er  might disconcert
3''ou a little, my dear."

Oh no ; straightforwardness would not
disconcert me ; I would rather deal with
straightforward people ! But is Miss Elizabeth
Otway so very formidable, then ? "

*' Oh no, not formidable at all, my dear, but
very  very undemonstrative, except  except
when she is annoyed  at least, not annoyed,

but I am afraid I am giving a wrong

Impression of her, and perhaps "

Perhaps I shall like her very much, after
all," said Geraldine, encouraged by her interview
with the witch.

'' Perhaps ! " echoed Eleanor, faintly. For
it seemed very unlikely that the doomed
intruder would succeed in doing what nobody
had ever done yet.

Geraldine was more puzzled than ever, on
finding what a very harmless bogey the first
of the witches really was, as to her guardian's
reason for keeping the very existence of his
sisters concealed from her. The dread of
some terrible secret to be disclosed to her in
this dreary house on this anxious night began
to grow upon her again ; and, when the creaking
of the door at last announced the approach
of the all-important Miss Elizabeth, the girl
turned with a deep sigh of relief towards
her.

But the very first sight of the stiffly upright
figure, majestic though not tall, in an old gray
silk gown that hung in soft folds about her,
and of the hard face and the cold eyes, struck
Geraldine with superstitious indefinable terror,
for she recognized the face which had once

frightened her in her childhood ; and she knew
now that she had been in Waringham Hall
before. As the rigid figure approached, she
bowed, but for a moment dared not advance.
When within a few steps of her, Elizabeth
stopped and looked at her from head to foot.
There was something in this cold, contemptuous,
deliberate inspection so cruelly different from
the timid inquiring scrutiny to which the other
sister had subjected her, that Geraldine, alarmed
and Abounded, shrank back and hesitated, not
knowing what to say. However, as the other
maintained her cold silence, the girl began, ina
low, faltering voice 

I have dared, Miss Otway "

'' Dared ? Yes, that is the right word. You
have dared a great deal. Miss Lindley."

But the girl, knowing herself to be innocent
of intentional wrong, raised her brown eyes to
meet the cold blue ones very steadily ; and,
recovering her self-possession to hear and
answer whatever accusation might be coming,
she said, in a firmer tone 

You cannot know. Miss Otway, that Sir
Charles sent for me."

'' Indeed ! Whom did he send ? "

'' Mr. Reginald Bamber."

Who was also good enough to bring you,
I suppose ? "

Yes, he drove me here."

And is he going to drive you back ? "

'' I  I don't know."

Oh, then the duty of seeing you safely
restored to your friends is entrusted to us ?
Or is it your intention to honour us permanently
with your presence ? "

'' Elizabeth ! Elizabeth ! " expostulated
Eleanor, moved out of her tacit submission
by this coarse cruelty and (by the stony expression
of her sister's face, which told that she
had worse blows still to deal before long. The
rigid gray figure merely silenced the feeble
protest by an imperative gesture.

I don't understand you," said Geraldine,
in a low voice.

I will try to speak more clearly. Since
you are so abnormally innocent, it devolves
upon me to tell you that your presence in this
house is an insult to us, Sir Charles's sisters, who
for years have been silent sufferers from the

unreasonable fancy he took, nineteen years
ago, to the abandoned child of a beggar
woman."

Eleanor sat crouched on the sofa, shuddering.
But the girl to whom this revelation was
thus coarsely made heard it in perfectly calm
silence, without a start or a sound. It was too
new, too sudden, too entirely unexpected for
her to be able at once to feel any sensation
about it ; she merely understood it, and waited
for more.

Elizabeth continued  ''I should have
thought that, having been brought up, thanks
to the generosity with which Sir Charles starved
and pinched his own relatives for your sake,
in a manner far above your station, you would
have had the decency to respect the feeling
which prompted your benefactor to forbid you
this house."

My guardian  Sir Charles  has never forbidden
me this house, madam," said Geraldine,
quietly ; '' and it was he who sent for me this
evening. It is he I have come to see, and
I have no wish to obtrude either upon you or
Miss Eleanor Otway, If you will be kind

enough to let him know I am here, you will see
I have told you the truth."

She turned, with a first restless movement,
glancing with anxious eyes towards the belL
She was not only impatient to be with her old
guardian, but a choking feeling in her throat
warned her that, if she were to have to pass
through a further ordeal of cold looks and cruel
words, her self-command would be in danger.

But Elizabeth had other bolts in store, and
she meant to use them all.

'* Unfortunately it is impossible for me to
fulfil your wishes," said she, with hard irony.
'' A physician from London is with him, and he
cannot be disturbed."

'' Then I will come back to see him presently,"
said Geraldine, speaking rather more
quickly than before. " I will take care that
you and Miss Eleanor Otway shall not again
be disturbed by my arrival."

I am afraid I must beg you not to run the
risk of incurring another disappointment. Miss
Lindley. In the critical state my brother. Sir
Charles, is in now, the excitement of seeing
any one but the members of his own family

might have dangerous results for him, and I
regret to inform you that I therefore feel compelled
to withhold my permission from your
doing him the honour of a visit."

'* But he wishes to see me," expostulated
Geraldine, still very quietly, though her voice
was not quite steady.

"Very likely. But his wishes, now that he
is ill, must be controlled for his good by the
common sense of those nearest and dearest to
him."

But there is no one nearer or dearer to
him than I am," burst out Geraldine, not loudly,
but with the fire of passionate earnestness in
her voice. " You yourself have confessed that.
For, if the story I never heard before, which
you have just told me, is true, then surely
the little outcast who had no claim upon
him must be very, very, dear for him to
have made for her sake the sacrifices you
speak of"

'' You need not distress yourself about that,
Miss Lindley. The sacrifices Sir Charles made
on your account, by selling his farms and
cutting down his timber, have affected chiefly

VOL. I. 14

that part of his estate from which we, his
sisters, would, in the case of his death, derive
what scanty income we should have. But these
details cannot interest you. So long as your
own place in his will is secure, of course ours
is a matter of no importance to you."

Geraldine caught an inspiration from these
words.

''If that is what is troubling you, you need
not be afraid of me," said she quickly. " Sir
Charles has indeed, as you say, done more than
enough for me." She was hurrying her words,
lest the passion of remorseful gratitude which
was surging up in her heart should overflow
and render her incapable of thought or action.
*' Thanks to him, I have been well educated
and am able to work. If he were to do anything
more for me now that I know all I owe
him "  her voice was shaking more and more
" it would not cause me happiness, but the
deepest pain. Let me tell him that ! " she
almost sobbed.

You are very good. But I cannot impose
on your generosity so far. It seems inhospitable
to suggest it ; but I think your friends at

Copsley, as well as Sir Charles, would be
much distressed if you were to delay your
return any longer. It is getting late for a
young lady to be out without an escort. I
will order the carriage to take you back."

She moved towards the bell. There was a
moment's pause before Geraldine dared trust
herself to speak. Then she said 

Thank you ; but I will not trouble you todo
that. I know Waringham Vicarage is close
by ; they are expecting me there."

Johnson was waiting at the other end of
the room. Before Elizabeth could order the
carriage, Geraldine had bowed to her, and
had shaken hands with Eleanor, who, braving
her sister's anger, crept up to the girl and
pressed the warm firm hand in her skinny
little fingers. Elizabeth was olad the oirl had
refused the offer of the carriage, as she grudged
every moment's delay in getting her safely out
of the house before Lindley or Sir Charles
should learn her presence there. She had felt
unutterably thankful for the self-control Geraldine
had shown in keeping her voice too low
for the sound of it to penetrate to the sickroom

above ; she was thankful now for the
girl's choice of going away on foot.

Geraldine left the room bravely, with firm
step and erect carriage ; but no sooner had the
drawing-room door closed upon her than she
turned to the old man-servant with glittering
eyes and panting breath.

Can't you take me to him now ? " she
whispered. " Oh, if he should die without my
seeing him now  I  I think I should go mad !
Oh, take me to him, take me to him, for
Heaven's sake ! "

The sound of a footstep at the other side
of the drawing-room door suddenly froze the
words on her lips, and, recalling her self-control,
she crossed the hall towards the front
door. There, after a cautious look into the
darkness behind him, Johnson paused, with his
hand upon the lock.

*' I dare not go up now, Miss Geraldine.
Mr. Fielding is up with Sir Charles and the
doctor ; and he has it all his own way about
the place now. He is Sir Charles's cousin,
ma'am  and if he was to say you couldn't
come in, it would be all ujd with your chance

of seeing master. But, if you could manage
to wait about, Miss Geraldine  it isn't a
pleasant thing for a young lady to have todo,
but it's your best chance  if you were to
catch the doctor going out, and could persuade
him to take you up to his room  why, you can
wheedle a bird off a bough. Miss Geraldine,
and you ought to be able to do it."

'' Thank you, thank you, Johnson ; I'll meet
him, if I have to watch about all night ; and
ril persuade him, if I have to beg him on my
knees, to take me back."

The butler opened the door, and she went
out into the darkness full of excitement and
eager hope that this last chance of seeing her
adored guardian that night might succeed.
But as, walking with trembling steps over the
gravel towards the front of the house, she
heard the door close upon her, and realized
that she was shut out from the house where
the man who had been, to her, father and all
the world besides lay, perhaps, dying at that
moment, all her self-control suddenly gave
way, and, returning, she flung herself down
upon the doorstep and burst into sobs and

tears. The sense of the cruel words Elizabeth
Otway had spoken to her had dawned upon
her in all their terrible meanings now that she
was alone. It was the generous charity of
the man she had crown to love as if he had
been her own father which had saved her in
her childhood, cherished her during all these
years, and supplied her every whim and fancy
so munificently that the belief had insensibly
grown up in her and in those about her that
she was an heiress. She, the outcast child
of a beggar-woman, a beggar and an outcast
now aoain herself! It was this feelings which
had prompted her to throw herself upon the
doorstep of his home, the home from which
they had shut her out, to sob her heart out, and
to pray with all the fervour of her soul that
she might see him once again  just once !
He should not die until she had told him she
knew everything, until she had sobbed out
upon his breast some sort of incoherent, passionate
thanks for all he had done for her. It
would be too horrible ; it could not be !

She sprang up and peered through the
figured glass of the door panels into the entrance-hall.

All she could see of the lighted inner
hall beyond was that there were figures moving
in it ; dreading lest one of these should be Miss
Elizabeth Otway, she dared not ring yet. As
she debated within herself what she should do,
whether she should search round the house for
another entrance, and trust to chance for
reaching Sir Charles's room somehow, she
heard footsteps on the gravel coming towards
the entrance where she stood. Turning, she
saw in the gloom the figure of a tall man close
to the steps. Ashamed of having been caught
in the act of peeping into the house, and rather
alarmed by the manner in which the figure
stopped short in front of her, as if to prevent
her passing, she darted down the two wide
stone steps past him. He turned at once and
followed her. She recovered herself as a
natural thought struck her, and, suddenly facing
the figure, without, however, coming nearer, she
asked 

'' Is it you, Mr. Bamber ? "

The figure approached her without answering,
and, now really frightened, Geraldine
hurried across the broad space of gravel which

Stretched In front of the entrance, towards a
dark mass of trees and shrubs opposite. As
she ran in the darkness, which was now almost
that of night  for it was nearly seven o'clock
and the evening was dull and foggy  she was
stopped abruptly by coming against a low iron
railing ; a bar rattled as she touched it, and,
finding that her fingers were upon a gate, she
felt for the latch, raised it, slipped through, and
plunged into a clump of shrubs and evergreens
on her right hand. She discovered that she
was treading in the soft mould of a flower-bed,
as she brushed past a yew tree and then paused
close to a lilac bush, whose sweet half-open
blossoms touched her cheek as she held her
breath to listen. She could hear the man's
footsteps still, though she could not see him 
he had given up pursuit and was returning
towards the house. Shame then seized her at
her childish fright ; no one of whom she need be
afraid would be going boldly up to the house
as this man was doing when she first saw him.
She was not particularly timid by nature ; buta
certain vague dread of the stranger himself
which she could not define had seized her just

at a time when she was still in a state of high
nervous excitement.

She had just found her way slowly and
sheepishly on to a narrow path that led from
the little fate through which she had come to
a similar one about a dozen yards farther on,
when she heard the front door of the house
open, and saw against the light in the hall
behind him the figure of the butler standing in
the doorway. He came out on to the steps
and called softly, " Miss Geraldine ! " Before
she could rush forward at the welcome sound,
he had come down the steps on to the drive ;
the next moment, with a hoarse cry of terror,
he had fled back helter-skelter up the steps into
the house, slamming the door behind him. She
could see from where she now stood what it
was that had caused his alarm  it was the tall
figure, only just distinguishable in the gloom,
which had started her upon her wild flight
into the shrubbery. She crept up to the little
gate through which she had come, and, leaning
upon it, watched the mysterious stranger
with straining eyes as he went up the steps and
prosaically rang the bell.

At the moment when Geraldlne had left the
house, Lindley, whose important duties in the
sick-room did not prevent his taking a watchful
interest in what went on downstairs, had been
coming from his cousin's bedside to find out
the meaning of certain sounds which had reached
his ears while imperative business, connected
with papers which the baronet had desired to
have read to him, had detained him with Sir
Charles and Doctor Ledbury. He met Elizabeth
at the foot of the staircase, on the way from
the drawing-room to her own room.

You have had a visitor, have you not ? "
he asked amiably.

Yes," she answered. '' Reginald Bamber
came to inquire after Charles."

Ah, yes, I saw the Vicar's little cart from
the window ! Mrs. Bamber came with him, did
she not ? I saw a lady's figure."

I believe he did say she had come with
him."

'' Surely she stayed some time, did she not ?
I seemed to hear a lady's voice a minute
ago."

'' I don't know whose voice it can have been.

then," said Elizabeth Indifferently, proceeding
to pass him.

He had a suspicion of the truth ; she could
tell that from a light which suddenly came into
his face. But he had to speak to her upon
another matter.

'' Are you going upstairs, Elizabeth ?
Charles, who Is now perfectly conscious and
able to make himself understood, thanks to the
doctor I sent for, wants you and Eleanor to
come to his room to hear an Important declaration
he has to make. And Johnson and Mrs.
Symes are to be there also ; It Is a thing which
cannot be too widely known." LIndley was
speaking with studied calmness, but there was
the ring of triumph in his voice, the light of
success In his eyes. *' He has been making his
will ; that was the business which obliged him
to deny you admittance. But it is over now,
and he Is very anxious to see you""

This was too much for Elizabeth self-control.
She turned on him with fire.

And you think the game is yours, Lindley ?
You think that, after having locked yourself up
with a weak-minded dying man, and Induced

him to listen to stories and sign papers prepared
by you, in the presence of witnesses suborned
to your interests, you can triumphantly flourish
the results of your patience and industry in the
faces of us, his nearest relatives, without our
uttering a word of protest ! Why, I can and I
will call the whole household to witness the
open manner in which you have set a cordon
of your spies round my brother to prevent our
approaching him. It will be the most flagrant
case of undue influence ever brought before the
Probate Court."

The case never will be before the Probate
Court, unless some accident has clouded that
intellect which has so long been your own
boast and your family's torment," said Lindley,
with quiet insolence. " Look here," he added
in a lower voice, as he took from his pocket
a small bundle of papers and letters ; and,
selecting two small strips of paper from the
rest, held them one by one before her at just
sufficient distance for them to be legible to
her in the lamplight, but out of reach of her
unscrupulous fingers  " what do you say to
that  and that ? " he asked exultingly. '' Will
those proofs silence you ? "

'' Let me see ; I can't see," said Elizabeth
faintly, as she clutched the bannisters.

'' You have seen quite enough, I think," he
answered, as he watched the effect of his
revelation.

Those papers are forgeries," she declared,
In a low voice, recovering herself at once.

'' Are they ? Well, we'll see !" he answered,
as he carefully slipped them through the elastic
band which held the whole packet of documents
and put them carefully back Into the breast-pocket
of his coat.

If Charles had still had an heir. If James,
our unfortunate nephew, had not been dead tous,
you would never have dared to concoct this
Infamous plot."

You are mistaken altogether, my dear
Elizabeth. If James,  our unfortunate nephew,'
as you euphemistically call him, had not
rendered himself incapable of Inheriting the
property, I would show these papers to him,
as I now show them to you, with just as much
confidence in the fact that their evidence is
irrefutable."

He called to Johnson, who appeared at that

moment on his way to the dining-room to make
preparations for dinner.

Run after Miss Geraldine  Lindley," said
he, with a glance at his cousin and a significant
pause before the surname. *' Ask her to return
with you here, and show her straight up to Sir
Charles's room."

And, softly whistling, Lindley turned and
went upstairs.

Johnson put down the plate-basket, and
got to the front door with the alacrity of a lad,
lest his mistress should countermand this order.
But, for the time, Elizabeth's imperious promptness
had left her ; she followed the servant
slowly into the outer hall, heard him call, '' Miss
Geraldine ! "  heard him utter a cry, and, the
moment after, saw him rush back, slam the
front door, and stand white and trembling, with
staring eyeballs and open mouth, before her.

What is the matter ? " she asked abruptly.
'' Have you seen a ghost ? "

'' Ye-es, ma'am."

'what ghost?"

The butler put his hand up to his damp
forehead, and stared at his mistress as if to

assure himself that he was awake and sober.
Then he tried to speak ; but fright had parched
his mouth, and at first he was Inaudible. When
he got back his voice he whispered huskily 

Master James ! "

Elizabeth started violently.

Hush, man ! Are you dreaming ? " she
said in a quick, low voice. " Don't you
know "

But she was interrupted by the ringing of
the bell. Signing to Johnson, who still stood
paralyzed by alarm, to open the door, she
turned the handle of the library door with
fingers which, in spite of her strong nerves,
were clammy with excitement and indefinable
dread.

And the unfortunate servant moved obediently
towards the entrance-hall, with the
leaden feet of a doomed man on his way to the
scaffold.

CHAPTER X.

Tie gloom of a starless and foggy night had
already fallen over the Norfolk broads and
marshes and settled thickly among the oak
trees of Warlngham Park, Avhen the old butler,
Johnson, in obedience to his mistress's order,
slowly and tremblingly opened the front door of
the Hall to give admittance to the fissure which
had frightened him so much.

But when, having opened the door very
gradually, with his eyes carefuU}' kept away
from the dreaded object, he had recovered
enough self-possession to turn his head and
balance at the figure once more, his fiuQers
slipped from the door handle as he examined
the ghost from head to foot in the light of the
lamp above, and assured himself that It was
a living man who stood, In long rough black

ulster and round travelling-hat, on the threshold
before him.

Lord ha' mercy ! " muttered the servant
below his breath. " It is himself sure enough."

'eyes, it is himself, and a pretty welcome
he is getting ! " said James Otway, with some
irritation. Then he stepped into the entrance-hall,
handing his bag to the still trembling
manservant, and continuing to grumble ina
manly, pleasant, and rather musical voice.
'' First some peeping baggage of a girl runs
away at sight of me as if I had the plague ;
then you, who are old enough to know better, I
should think, howl and slam the door in my
face as if I were a ghost. Don't stand there
making faces at me ; go and get me something
to eat. How are you ? " And his irritability
having gradually given way, in the course of
his speech, to amused friendliness, he ended by
taking the butler s hand into his own, which,
by-the-bye, was much larger and rougher than
that of the servant, and giving it a hearty
shake.

Johnson looked up at him, still in evident
fear, and answered in a whisper 

VOL. I, IS

'' I'm nicely, thank you, sir. I hope you
are in good health too, sir."

Why, what's the matter with me ? Do
I look as if I were dying ? " asked the young
man, with a sudden return of irritability.

'' No, sir  no. Quite the contrary. You're
looking very well indeed, sir, considering "

The cobwebs of fright and surprise had not
quite cleared away yet from the old servant's
brain, or he would have had more tact than
to let slip that suggestive word  more tact
than to break off in his speech, appalled at his
own indiscretion. James Otway, who was
unbuttoning his ulster, turned sharply.

Considering what ? "

But the frown on his face and the low growl
in which he spoke did not encourage the
servant to be eloquent. He tried respectfully
to laugh it off with a short joyless chuckle ashe
said 

"Well  er  considering the long time you
have been away from Waringham, sir."

"Oh, ah!" said James, abruptly. Then,
after a pause, during which Johnson helped
him off with his ulster and noticed that circumstances

had led him to become less careful of
his appearance than he used to be, he continued,
** Let me see, it is six years since I was last in
this old vault  isn't it ? "

Yes ; it is six years come next June since
you were last at the Hall, sir," answered Johnson,
who, now that the first shock of his surprise
was over, was becoming more and more curious
as to the way in which Master James had '' got
off," and as to the effect his arrival would have
on affairs in the household.

And how have things been going on all this
time ? Much the same as ever, I suppose ? "

'' Yes, sir, much the same as ever, until
yesterday, when  when Sir Charles was taken
very suddenly ill, as perhaps you may have
heard, sir ? " he said, inquiringly.

Yes, I have heard all about it  only
within the last half-hour, though, from the
keeper at the lodge  new man  didn't know
who I was, and I didn't tell him. I've orown
modest now, and don't care for a boisterous
welcome," he added, with a short, hard laugh.

'' Yes, sir, of course  yes, sir," Johnson
agreed, nervously.

'' How is my uncle now ? " asked James,
gravely, but without any show of deep affliction.
There had never been the slightest sympathy
between Sir Charles and his nephew, and for
the latter to pretend to feel great grief at his
uncle's condition would have been, to the old
servant who remembered his neglected boyhood,
the most transparent hypocrisy.

He was better when I saw him last, sir.
He's had a great London doctor down to see
him, that Mr. Fielding sent for ; and this
Doctor Ledbury has really brought him round
quite wonderful, so that he can speak a little 
not plain, but so as you can understand him.
And he's been making his will, sir ; but, now
you've come, of course it will change all that."

Oh no ; his will won't make much
difference to me ! " said James, indifferently.
*' Who is this Mr. Fielding who seems to be
such an important person here now ? Down
at the lodge I heard a great deal about him.
Surely it isn't that cousin of my uncle's,
Lindley Fielding, whom they never would see
if they could help it ? "

*' The very same, sir," replied Johnson,

dropping his voice. "It was something he
told Sir Charles that gave him a great shock
that brought on this stroke, I believe. It
was in the library that it happened, sir."

Johnson glanced at the library door, which
was some distance from where they were standing
; and he managed, by looking significantly
in that direction and then at the young gentleman,
to convey the information that some one
there mioht overhear them.

Is he in there, then ? " murmured James.
Johnson shook his head, and formed with
his lips the single word, " She ! "

James had not been too long away to
understand that. He raised his eyebrows,
and muttered in provokingly audible tones 

Skinning flints, as usual, I suppose ?
Where is my Aunt Eleanor ? "

Miss Eleanor is in the drawing-room, sir.
Shall I announce you, sir ? "

'' No, no  not yet. Somehow I am not
overwhelmed with eager joy at the prospect
of beholding my affectionate relatives once
more. I think you were about the only friend
I had in the old days here, Johnson. You

used to tweak my ears, but you were not
illiberal in the matter of tarts."

But his only friend had not shown great
alacrity in welcoming him, nor did he now
display any sentiment more tender than a wish
to dispose in some way of this unexpected
visitor before the latter should, in the hearing
of the household bogey, Miss Elizabeth, make
some compromising statement which would
bring that lady's icy wrath swiftly and suddenly
upon them both. An evil spirit of listless
loitering had apparently got hold of this
strangely altered Master James, however ; for
he yawned and stretched himself and looked
at one after another of the dusty old portraits,
and grumbled at the bad light, and wanted to
know why they didn't have gas, and behaved
altogether in such an unconventional and disconcerting
way for a man who, though not in
the pleasantness of circumstances, was, after all,
returning to the home of his childhood after
an absence of many years, that the orthodox
Johnson gradually stiffened into a rigid attitude
of respectful disapproval as he watched
him.

At last the young man suddenly turned
round and blinked at the lamp In an odd
manner that the butler, standing In a position
of obsequious dignity, with his eyes upon the
ground, did not notice.

"Ah, well, I suppose I must go In and see
them ! " he said, with a great burst of rather
overpowering cheerfulness.

I think you had better, sir," agreed Johnson,
coldly ; then, surprised Into a little more
intelligence by the impatient stamp of the foot
with which the young gentleman turned from
him aoraln, he added In a more Sfenlal tone,
*' It Is warmer in there, sir, and It will be more
cheerful for you than "

'warm, cheerful ! " interrupted James, hotl)\
*' Yes, with the warmth and cheerfulness of the
charnel-house ! Do you think I expected a
blaze of light In honour of my return in the
windows of this place, which was a dungeon
to me in my boyhood ? Or that the sweet-natured
guardians who snubbed and neglected
me because I wasn't a pretty plaything would
rush out to overwhelm me with welcoming
caresses ? No ; I left them because a forthwith

the world had more attractions than their
love and sympathy could offer me. If my life
is ruined, it is through their fault  yes, their
fault  and  and I'm sure I don't know why
I've come back," he added, falling suddenly
from the full passionate tones in which, with
his eyes upon the opposite wall, he had been
speaking to himself, not to the butler, into the
careless apathy of his former manner.

'' I'm sure, sir, they will be very glad to see
you," said Johnson, with more courtesy than
confidence.

''Oh yes, Johnson, I'm sure they will!"
echoed James, drily.

He stepped slowly towards the drawing-room
door ; but, turning again before he reached
it, he asked, with his eyes on a trophy of a fox's
pate and a couple of brushes over the entrance
to the central hall :

'well, aren't you surprised to see me?
Don't you wonder how I got here ? "

Failing a welcome, the man was hungry
for mere curiosity as to the manner of his
return.

But Johnson was much disconcerted by

these questions, which he considered in the
Avorst possible taste, as putting a valued and
confidential retainer into a state of great embarrassment
for a suitable answer. He coughed,
and touching the tips of his left-hand fingers
lightly with those of his right suggested, in a
low and deferential voice 
*' Ticket-of-leave, sir ? "

But the explosion this too candid inquiry
produced sent him reeling back a step or two,
still respectful, but naturally astonished and
indignant. For James swung suddenly round
with clenched fist and fury in his face, and
hissed out at the bewildered manservant.

Good Heavens ! Hold your d d

tongue ! "

For a moment Johnson obeyed. Then, his
wounded dignity rising and re-asserting itself, he
drew up his still soldier-like figure and said 

'' I beg your pardon, sir ; it was far from
my intention to offend. I think  I think a
joke, a pleasantry, sir, might be pardoned in
such an old servant of the family as I am."

'* A joke ! " repeated James slowly, looking
down curiously, and still with a frown on his

face, at the deeply injured butler. "So you
have come out as a humorist since I've been
away ! Well, then, by Jove, I think your style
of fun is admirably suited to your surroundings.
You would make a mute split his sides,
Johnson."

And he walked at last to the drawing-room
door, opened it, and went in. Eleanor was
lying, crumpled and dishevelled, on her sofa,
feeling her own pulse and assuring herself that
her sister's violence towards that pretty unfortunate
protege of Charles's had shortened
her life.

*' Is that you, Lindley ? " she asked feebly,
as soon as she heard the door creak and caught
sight of a man's figure at the other end of the
room.

*' No, Aunt Eleanor," answered a voice which
caused her to start up and shriek, as he made
his way, without much alacrity, towards her.
He felt it to be quite a relief, after all these
cries and flights, when a cold firm hand took
his, and his Aunt Elizabeth, who had followed
him quickly into the room, said, with a steely
smile and in the same tone with which she

would have greeted him after an absence of
a couple of days 

Glad to see you back, James. Come to
the fire ; you must be cold."

He turned and shook her long white hand
gratefully in both his ; his dark blue eyes,
which were neither large nor brilliant, shining
with a responsive light that made his face
gentle and attractive at once.

"Thank you, Aunt Elizabeth," he said
huskily. And he drew her cold fingers through
his arm, and advanced with her to the white
hearth rug on to which the poor little invalid
had slipped, burying her face in the sofa, and
prepared for the end of the world.

Oh, go away ! Heaven forgive you, but
don't touch me," she moaned piteously, as the
big nephew, for whose guilt-laden soul she had
offered up a shuddering prayer each night and
morning for the last five years, stooped down
and put his arm round her and raised her
from the floor less bloodthirsty than she had
expected.

"Don't be frightened. Aunt Eleanor; I'm
not a ghost," he assured her, in a voice which,

O

If rather gruff, was gentle ; and he tried to place
her in a sitting position on the sofa.

But she doubled up limply as soon as he
withdrew his arm and took his seat beside her,
and his attempts at soothing her were quite
ineffectual until Elizabeth's cold voice, saying,
Eleanor, how long is this exhibition going to
last ? " acted like a charm upon her and reduced
her at once to submissive tranquillity. Then
the younger lady turned to her nephew. She
had had the advantage over the rest of having
overheard his voice while in the library, and
thus become accustomed to his presence before
she was brought into actual contact with him.
Quite as much astonished at his return as her
sister or Johnson had been, she was more prepared
to receive him with tact and kindness,
quite genuine of their kind, for she hailed in his
return a means of foiling Lindley Fielding.

"You have come back to us at a most
unfortunate time, as far as welcome is concerned,
as I dare say you have heard, James,"
she said kindly. " The place Is like a dim
dungeon full of dreary ghosts, Isn't it ? But of
course this sudden illness of poor Charles has

upset US all dreadfully, and taken the spirit out
of us."

James's face clearly expressed his opinion
that there had never been much to take out ;
but he agreed heartily that such a sad event
did of course make a place less festive ; and
she continued 

*' At the same time, in some other respects,
your arrival could not have been better timed."

Both her nephew and her sister looked up
at her, the former curious, the latter apprehensive.


During your long and most deeply deplored
absence, James, I suppose you have not had
much opportunity of keeping yourself au courant
of the affairs of the family ? "

'' No," said James, shortly.

She went on at once, without giving him
time to grow uncomfortable over this allusion



'' I am sorry to say that advantage has been
taken of it by certain unprincipled persons to
worm themselves into the confidence of your
poor uncle, who, you know, was always too
confiding and easily influenced."

James assented, remembering how submissive
his uncle had always been to her.

One person in particular, a woman " 
James's attention grew  'has so insinuated
herself into his affections as to render him
utterly insensible to the claims of love and 
and duty which ought to bind him to us, his
sisters, whose devotion, being a fact of loiig
years' standing, has become a matter of course
and of no account." Her nephew expressed
becoming astonishment. " I have reason to
believe that recently this woman's whole attention
has been directed to inducing your uncle
to leave to her everything which it is in his
power to will away ; and quite lately a worthless
cousin of ours has made common cause
with her, and has managed, by using her
influence, to obtain such a hold upon your
uncle that he may actually have induced him
to acknowledge this girl as his daughter."

Daughter ! " echoed James.

Eleanor started up.

*' Oh, Elizabeth, you don't know ! I don't
believe Lindley "

'' Lindley ! " cried James, still more puzzled.

Now Lindley was the last member of the
family who had seen James since the departure
of the latter from Waringham, nearly six years
ago ; he and the lawyer, Mr. Massey, having
both visited the young man in prison, when he
was awaiting his trial for the murder of the
Irish farmer Hughes. It was of the utmost
importance, therefore, to Elizabeth to know on
Avhat terms the two men stood towards each
other ; for, though the appearance of James
would certainly alarm Lindley, on the other
hand, the sight of Lindley, if they had not
parted on good terms, might alarm James.
The circumstances of her nephew's return
were still a mystery to her ; if he had been
formally released, then all was safe, for a few
days or hours would make him Sir James, and
his generous easy-going nature would make
him almost as easy to manage as her brother
himself had been ; yet, on the other hand, the
evident state of depression he was in, his
abrupt changes of manner, a certain nervous
way of peering around him into the dark
corners of the room, pointed to the supposition
that he might, after all, have only escaped from

prison, in which case that fact would have to be
concealed from Lindley, and the unscrupulous
adventurer frightened out of the house, before
Sir Charles could be induced to destroy his
newly made will ; then, though James, being a
convict, could not inherit, she and her sister
would be safe.

Lindley Fielding, Aunt Henrietta s son.
You remember him ? "

Yes ; I remember him."

His tone told nothing. He was looking
absently at the fire, with his elbows on his
knees and his chin on his hands, quiet, gloomy,
and sleepy-looking. His momentary curiosity
in the story she was telling him seemed to
have died away, and his indifference on such
a matter amazed her, until it suddenly occurred
to her that this abstraction was the natural
result of the enforced reserve of prison-life.

'' Have you any objection to seeing him ? "
hazarded Elizabeth, softly.

Objection ? " repeated James, without
looking up. " Oh no ! "

Eleanor moved uneasily ; her sister quieted
her by one cold look.

We must have a room prepared for you,
James ; I think the red room will be the most
comfortable. Dinner will be ready in a few
minutes now, so I will consult Mrs. Symes about
your accommodation at once. You had better
come upstairs and prepare for dinner, Eleanor."

Yes, I will come directly, Elizabeth," said
the invalid, meekly, beginning to gather up her
shawl and book and smelling-bottle. She had
a suspicion of what her sister was going to do,
and resolved to stay to watch proceedings on
Lindley's behalf, if she could manage it.

So Elizabeth left the room alone. A spasm
of horror seized the nervous lady at finding
herself again tete-astute with this man who had
the guilt of blood upon his head. Conquering it
less from kinship or Christian charity than for
Lindley's sake, she leant upon her crutch-stick,
to say, piercing him with the round black eyes
which had, unconsciously to their owner, a
weird power of fixing attention 

James, it is our duty to forgive, even to
seventy times seven. As we forgive you the
wrong you have done, remember it becomes
you to be merciful to others."

VOL. I. 16

The young man, who had risen to bestow
upon her the unwelcome Httle attention of
helping her to pack herself up for the journey-upstairs,
stopped, with her woollen shawl in his
hands, and shuddered. Fear and nervousness
made the croaking tones which his aunt meant
to be entreating hard and didactic ; and, if he
had been as innocent as a child, the effect her
well-meant address had upon him might well
have been the same. As it was, however, it
seemed to her that he felt the sting of a
heavily laden conscience ; and, though in fear
and trembling she was too orthodox not to
rejoice in having made some effect. Unhappily,
it did not soften him. He said, rather
impatiently 

Will you have this shawl on, Aunt
Eleanor ? "

And, just as she was submitting to have
it wrapped very carefully round her bent
shoulders, the door creaked again, and they
heard two voices and the footsteps of two
persons.

As soon as the sound of the man's voice
struck James's ears, he started, and his aunt

saw his face chancre. With wonderful and
unexpected energy she hobbled across the
room and met her sister and Lindley almost
before they had advanced beyond the door,
which Lindley closed as they entered.

'* Lindley," she croaked, in a hoarse whisper,
do you know who "

But Elizabeth dragged her aside before she
could finish her speech ; she had been careful
not to give her cousin the least hint that there
was any one waiting to see him in the drawing-room
but Eleanor.

What is it ? " he asked, as he stepped
forward quickly into the room.

The next moment there were heard two
short cries in men's voices, one loud and sharp
and hissing, the cry of a horrible surprise ; the
other low, deep, murderous. The frightened
women saw the men approach each other
quickly ; they could not see why or how. Then
there was a crash as the lamp was flung down
and the light went out ; another sound in
James's voice, a short pursuit, then something
was overturned, and there was silence. The
ladies, after a first scream of surprise from

Eleanor, stood quiet as death, staring with
straining eyes into the gloom, at first impenetrable,
in which the desperate chase was taking
place. For Eleanor, who would have rushed
shrieking to the door, was held by force by her
sister. Until she had had time for a few
instants' thought to try to realize what this
might mean, Elizabeth dared not summon
witnesses ; but, as her eyes became accustomed
to the gloom, and she saw that the pursuer was
the taller figure, which she knew to be that of
her nephew, she cried 

James, for Heaven's sake, speak ! What
IS It :

And, as she moved towards the door, she
was arrested by another sound, and she saw the
two figures together, struggling. Then there
came a low wolfish cry from a man's lips, her
nephew's, and the figures fell. She tried to
move, she tried to call, but voice and limbs
failed her ; she could only stand, with staring
eyes and loudly sobbing breath, watching,
Awaiting. In another instant one figure rose,
the other and taller after it. With a spring
James had the elder man again in his grip 

only for a moment ; LIndley struggled out of
his coat, flung it over his pursuer's face, and
escaped. There was the crash of glass, and
James, shaking himself free, rushed to the
window. But he only cut himself against the
broken glass ; the window was still fastened,
and no one could have got through the hole
made in the glass. He staggered back, with a
cry of fury. Then the door creaked ; rushing
blindly in that direction in the darkness, he
was greeted by a discordant duet in the voices
of his aunts. Eleanor did nothing but moan
and cry ; Elizabeth hissed out 

Stop, James, stop ! "

He paid no heed ; but, dashing past
towards the door, with his back to the faint
rays that penetrated into the apartment through
the drawn blinds, he ran against the partition
which divided the long drawing-room from the
smaller one, and staggered back, for the
moment partly stunned.

He went out ; I  must  follow him ! " he
gasped out savagely, as Elizabeth found her
way to the bell and rang it sharply.

No, James," said his elder aunt ; " it

was I who opened the door. No one went
out."

The feeble lie was transparent, and he did
not answer. As he reached the door the
butler opened it, and uttered an involuntary
exclamation.

*' Did you pass any one ? Did a man pass
you ? " asked James, dragging the manservant
out into the hall with hands which were
shaking with fierce excitement.

No, sir, no one," said Johnson, beginning
to feel sure that imprisonment had affected
Master James's intellect.

Liars, liars every one of you ! " growled
the young man between his teeth, as he stared
about him, blinking in the light, and uncertain
which way to go as Johnson made his escape.

His aunt's cold voice from the drawincr-
room doorway made him turn ; and she came
out towards him as she spoke.

*' Come with me into the library," she said,
gravely and with authority. '' I have a better,
surer weapon against that man than your
hand."

Over her left arm hung Lindley's coat,

which he had left in James's hand when the
struggle between them grew close. As she
spoke, she drew from one of the pockets a
small packet of papers held together by an
elastic band.

*' No," answered James, savagely ; " I must
be revenged my own way."

But his uncertainty as to which direction
had been taken by the man of whom he was
in pursuit rendered it easy for her to have her
will with him.

There was a cold light of triumph in her
hard face as she gently but firmly drew him
towards the door of the library, which she
opened.

Come in," she said. " I can promise you
that to listen to the few words I have to say
will be no waste of your time."

He yielded to the force of the resolute will,
and followed her into the library.

CHAPTER XL

The fire was alight in the Library, Sir Charles's
armchair in its customary place ; though the
housemaid had known, as she wheeled it as
usual opposite to that exact spot on the hearth-rug
where her master's heels had, in the course
of years, worn a hole, that he would never use
it again.

Elizabeth was not sentimental. She seated
herself without remembrances or regrets in the
armchair, and signed to her nephew to take
the one by the table. He glanced round him,
as he did so, at the old book-shelves and at
the names of old books which had made him
think in his childhood what a very learned man
his uncle must be. In those few moments,
while he looked about him, his mind evidently
comparing those old impressions with his

present ones, his aunt, occupied solely with
the affairs of the moment, quickly took a resolution,
and determining that it would be
well until matters were more settled to keep
her newly acquired secret to herself, she slipped
Kindles packet of papers into her own
pocket, and made up her mind to evade any
inquiries her nephew might make concerning
them.

But he did not seem to be in an inquiring
mood. His gaze fell from the books on to the
fire, and he sat looking at the glowing coals, as
stolid, silent, and inert as if no electric outburst
of passion had fired his veins and thundered
in his voice a few minutes before. She examined
him very attentively for some seconds
before she began, with her voice subdued to low
tones, as sympathetic as she could make them 

So this Lindley has wronged you too In
some way ? Believe me "

'' Lindley ! " interrupted James, raising his
head abruptly.

'' Yes. Don't you know that the man you
attacked, or who attacked you  I don't know
which  just now, was Lindley Fielding ? "

Her nephew got up and leant against the
mantelpiece, playing nervously with one of
the bronze horses which stood on each side
of the clock.

'' Lindley Fielding ! " he echoed slowly.

'' Yes. Who did you think it was ? "

'' I thought  no, I was sure it was "

He stopped, and stared vacantly at himself in
the glass. " I wonder if  if I was dreaming !
Perhaps the musty air of this old barn has
affected my head. And yet I don't think I

could have mistaken that voice, which

Besides," he cried, suddenly starting erect,
*' he turned out the light. Why should he do
that, except to prevent my seeing him ? And
I did see him, in spite of his grimaces and his
quickness  I tell you I did see him ; and it
was he  it was Williams, the man who has
ruined me body and soul, the man who fawned
upon me and humoured me, and wriggled himself
into possession of every thought I had,
the devil who led me where I was a fool to go.
Yes, yes ; I know I was a fool," said he, excitedly,
staring straight at the wall in front of
him, and bringing out his strong voice in a

deep thunder of anger and self-contempt. " I
was a weak, miserable fool. But it takes a
knave to make such a fool as that man made
of me. And I tell you I will have him ; I
won't be cheated of my revenge now. Let
me go, I say, let me go ! "

For as he left the mantelpiece and moved
towards the door, his aunt's white taper fingers
closed firmly upon his arm.

** What is the use of wandering about tiring
yourself with hunting for a man you are sure
not to find ? For, if Lindley Fielding really
has so much cause to fear you as you have
represented, he is certainly a mile off by this
time."

This was so evidently true, and was said
in such a sensible tone of calm and authoritative
persuasion, that the young man, who was clearly,
from some cause or other, in a state of weak
mental discipline, yielded again to her, as he
had done before, and sank down into the chair
he had occupied at the beginning of the interview.


Now," said she, not resuming her seat, but
standing before him with one hand on the

bureau, and speaking very earnestly, "if LIndley
should prove to be the man you suspect, you
will have my fullest sympathy, and all the help
I can give you towards such just punishment
as may be in our power. But there is quite
another motive he may have had for not wishing
you to see him, and I fancy it was this
suspicious action of overturning the lamp which
led you to mistake him for the man you have
so much reason to dislike. Lindley has, as I
told you, been plotting to get your uncle to
leave the property to a person of his choosing ;
he would never have dared to do this while
you were here, and your return has naturally
disconcerted him."

But not to such an extent as to lead him
to do anything hopelessly foolish," said James,
looking up at her with more shrewdness in his
blue eyes than she had expected. *' I know
this man Lindley  Williams  whatever his
name is. He is as clever as he can stick. If
it had been a mere matter of getting an unjust
will made, he would have faced it out. It
wanted the fear of a pair of hands at his throat
to make him raise such a scene as that which

took place In the drawing-room just now. You
need not be afraid of his Influence over my
uncle any longer ; while I am at the Hall he
will keep at a safe distance, I'll answer for It."

He spoke with such absolute certainty that
she began to recognize the likelihood of
LIndley's plots to get the affairs of the family
into his own hands having been more deeply
laid than she had suspected. Of course, since
James had been in prison when the news came
of LIndley's charitable visit to him, they had
only heard one side of the story. They had
sent no word, no message of sympathy or
sorrow to the young man in his misery and
degradation, except through Sir Charles's
solicitor, Mr. Massey ; and James had sent no
word back ; therefore, the means by which he
had fallen from his bright adventurous manhood
to the depths of a cowardly crime had remained
unknown to them.

James," said she slowly, lowering her voice
to a solemn whisper, '' do you mean to tell me
that you suspect some hand of having deliberately
set about your ruin ? Be frank with me ;
there is no use In making up a story to me.

I have welcomed you without one, and you
have my sympathy In any case  my warmest
sympathy, my poor, dear boy ! "

She laid her white hand  which had
wonderful capabilities both for hardness and
softness  caressingly on his curly brown hair.
But there was wanting In the soft touch just
that thrill of warm human feeling which sends
the current of sympathy from one heart to
another; and James, sensitive, responsive, Impressionable,
remained unmoved.

"Thank you, aunt," he repeated. Instinctively,
but without anything warmer than courtesy.
What should I make up a story for ? " he
continued, simply. " It could not help me now,
it Is all over with me now; I'm done for; but
it was his fault, he did it "  with a fresh outburst
of anger. '' Heaven knows that Is true
enough ; and Heaven knows what he did it for
I don't ! "

We may be able to find out If we go to
work coolly."

"What Is the use of that now ? His work
is done, he has wrecked my life ; for Heaven's
sake let us talk of something else," said he.

getting up to walk about. " I wanted to
forget the miserable business, to come somewhere
where nothing was known of it, where

I could get " He stopped short with a

laugh, not a merry one. The idea of expecting
consolation or welcome or sympathy worth the
having in this his old home suddenly struck
him in its U le light as quite ludicrous in its
extravagance.

Now his aunt was burning to hear the
whole story, which, if no longer interesting to
her nephew, might have considerable practical
value for her. She, therefore, with elaborate
demonstration of wakening affection in touch
and look and tone, followed him, and gently
said, as he stopped in front of a book-case,
with his eyes fixed intently on the dark volumes
of Gibbon's " Decline and Fall " 

'' How could you think we should know
nothing of it ? Did you imagine your welfare
you, the only remaining representative of
youth and hope in our decaying family  could
be a matter of indifference to us ? " He did
look down at her then, but it was with a rather
cynical expression. However, she went on,

undaunted, '' When sou disappeared from us
so cruelly, without one word, one hint of what
you were going to do, we were frantic with
anxiety about you ; we made inquiries, we
searched, we did everything we could to obtain
tidings of you. It was a most unfeeling thing
for you to do."

There was truth in all this, and James knew
it ; though, indeed, want of feeling was far from
having been the cause of his disappearance.

Yes, yes, I know it was wrong  I know
it was," he said restlessly. *' But you can't
imagine how intolerable the thought of entering
the Church had become to me ; even now, I
give you my word, I am inclined to think I did
better than that." His aunt could not restrain
a slight start at this avowal. " I knew I was
unfit for it, I knew I could never make you and
my uncle consider or understand my scruples ;
he is too calm by temperament to feel, and you
are too good a woman to know them. So,
half intentionally, half involuntarily, I drifted
off, and  and I did no good, as I suppose you
have guessed, as I dare say you prophesied.
Even at the last, when I had done something

at college to disprove the gloomy forebodings
of my future, which you let me hear so much of
when I was a boy, you never gave me credit
for much but straight limbs and strong lungs, I
fancy."

This was hardly just to the feeling of pride
Elizabeth had certainly taken in her nephew
when he had outgrown the need of it. But a
man down-broken as James now was cannot
be just.

And you see you were quite right," he
continued, interrupting her protest. '' Nothing
you told me when I was a boy, in those friendly
little inducements to conscientious effort which
began by telling me I was good for nothing,
overstepped the truth, I assure you. I think
you may reasonably take pride in having judged
me so truly, so early."

'james, James, how can you talk in this
manner ? It is most unkind and unfair. We
were overwhelmed when we heard of it  I most
of all."

'' When you heard of it ! " he repeated,
turning to look at her. '' What did you hear ?
How did you hear ? "

VOL. I. 17

'* We heard all about It, of course, in half a
dozen ways  Mr. Massey  the papers. You
surely did not imagine we had never heard
of it ! "

Was It in the papers ? I thought, being

out of the country Well, at any rate, you

may congratulate yourselves that it was not a
hanging matter ; for myself, I give you my
word I would rather it had been."

'' Hush, hush, James ; don't talk like that !
Had Lindley  had the man for whom you have
taken Lindley anything to do with  that ? "

*' Why, of course he had ! " said James turning
upon her with vehemence. "He had everything
to do with It ; it was he who took her
away from me  he, that man who had called
himself my friend, who had lived upon me, led
me away, done what he liked with me. He
has been the curse of my life, and some day 
some day  I'll have It out with him yet. He
may skulk and hide and creep out of my way,
and dodge me and escape me, as a fox does the
hounds ; but I'll hunt him down at last ; and
then I'll show him no mercy, If he begs for his
life on his knees."

That fixed stare In front of him with which
he spoke, as If his eyes actually saw himself In
the act of taking a sanguinary revenge, alarmed
his aunt much more than his words or the low
savage tones of his voice. She had forgotten,
until those words  '* It was he who took her
away "  recalled the fact to her mind, that there
had been a woman concerned In the murder,
not very creditable to James. The young man,
after his angry outburst, seemed to be anxious
to recollect his reserve ; this was just what she
wished to prevent. She said, in her softest
voice 

'' You were very fond of her ? "

Yes," answered he, briefly ; and he passed
his hand Impatiently over his head, as If to
Intimate that he wished to shake himself free
of the subject. '' I should like to see my
uncle ; can I see him now ? " he asked, in a
different tone.

I don't know ; the doctor is still with him ;
but I will go up and find out. Come with
me," she added affectionately, putting her hand
through his arm, anxious not to lose sight of
him until she had an opportunity of broaching

that very delicate subject, the manner of his
release or escape from prison.

So they went upstairs together, and he
waited outside his uncles room, while, in
answer to Elizabeth's knock, the door was
opened by Doctor Ledbury himself. He
glanced at James, whom she at once introduced
as her nephew. Contrary to her expectation 
for she had begun to feel convinced that he
was an accomplice of Lindley s  the physician
showed no surprise, no more interest than
would naturally be expected of a stranger in
the circumstances. He came out upon the
landing, having closed the bedroom door after
him, and said gravely, in his low-voiced, abrupt
manner, that he deeply regretted that he could
hold out no hope ; Sir Charles was sinking
fast ; he could do nothing further for him ;
the housekeeper had received from him all
necessary instructions. He was bound to
return to town that night. Mr. Otway had
better not enter his uncle's presence until Sir
Charles had been prepared for the sight of
him. Mr. Otway would excuse his abrupt
departure, as he must not miss his train. He

bowed, and Elizabeth accompanied him downstairs,
ordered that the carriage should be
brought round at once, and deferentially questioned
him about her brother's condition.

For it was impossible, when in the presence
of this man, to suspect him of complicity in
any plot. In the cold calm face, keen eyes,
upright and dignified bearing, there was something
which so naturally inspired respect, that
the first words she exchanged with him, as
they waited in the library for the announcement
of the carriage, dispelled her suspicions
and made her ashamed of them. As he stood
before her, on the very same spot where her
nephew had stood a few minutes before, she
instinctively compared the two men as furnishing
a most striking contrast. Both were tall,
broadly built men, with figures denoting great
muscular power ; but the one moved listlessly,
and walked as if the effort of dragging his great
limbs about were not worth the trouble it cost
him; while every motion of the man before
her seemed to suggest the reserved power of
a nature whose faculties were all well under
the command of an indomitable will. The

faces of the two men illustrated the contrast
still more powerfully. Both would have been
reckoned handsome, but James's good looks
Averse due more to the gentle, winning expression
of his dark blue eyes and somewhat weak
mouth than to regularity of feature ; while
Doctor Ledbury's clear-cut face, from his high
fair forehead to the thin-lipped mouth which
was almost concealed by a tawny moustache
and well-trimmed beard, was classical in outline
and firm, perhaps to hardness, in expression.


Curiously enough, as she thought, even at
the moment that she was making the comparison,
Doctor Ledbury turned the conversation
to the man with whom she was mentally
contrasting him.

"Is that gentleman whom I had the pleasure
of meeting just now the nephew of whom Sir
Charles talks as if he were dead ? "

Elizabeth looked surprised and anxious.

Does he speak of him so ? Then I am
afraid it will shock my brother very much to
see him. What would you advise ? It is the
same; he is our only nephew'

I

O

*' Poor fellow ! " ejaculated the physician, Ina
very low voice, as if to himself.

Elizabeth looked at him Inquiringly.

Pardon me. I am a judge of faces  to
be so Is an important part of my profession 
and I was painfully struck by the expression
of his. Fine young fellow ! " he added, more
lightly, to turn the subject.

For he had evidently astonished and even
alarmed the lady. She said slowly, after a
moment's pause  

May I ask you to tell me in what way his
expression struck you ? It is a matter of the
deepest interest to me ; and I should like, if
you will be so kind as to gratify my curiosity,
to compare your impressions with my knowledge
of him."

Remember, It is a delicate subject for meas
I warn you the Impression was a painful one.
Besides, I only saw him for an instant."

'' Go on. If you will."

*' Well, then, In the glimpse I had of him 
please remember that it was no more, and we
were nearly in the dark  I was almost startled
by what seemed to me, If I may use the

expression, a hang-dog look, as if the wearer
of it had recently been subjected to some deep
humiliation  nay, more  degradation. "

Elizabeth started.

Pardon me, I have pained you. I was
afraid I should. Acknowledge that you almost
forced my frankness upon me. And, as I
said, we Averse in the dark."

No, no ; I forced you to be frank. Will
you go on ? Don't be afraid of paining me,
I beg ; it is only facts and not impressions
that can do that. Will you tell me whether it
struck you  perhaps I am going too far even
for your strange skill  that his expression was
one of unmerited humiliation ? "

The physician hesitated.

Ah, of course ; it would have needed a
magician to tell that ! "

'' Not quite, I think," he responded. ** The
human face is much more easily read than
people imagine who have only studied it cursorily.
I did not pause so much because I could
not answer you as because I dared not."

' You may dare any communication to me,"
said Elizabeth, quietly.

The physician's keen eyes met hers, and a
glance told him that her boast was not ill-founded,
on this subject, at all events.

'' You are strong-minded, madam," he said,
in a tone as quiet as her own. '' I should have
decided, I am afraid, that the degradation
expressed in the face of young Mr. Otway
was not unmerited."

In spite of the fact that she had been
prepared for this, Elizabeth drew a sharp breath
as his last words fell. She looked up at him
quickly.

I am afraid of you, Doctor Ledbury  not
of the communications you have made to me,
for all that you have told me I knew already 
but of your wonderful power of reading your
fellow-creatures. Can you," she asked timidly,
fascinated into almost childish confidence by
the physician's skill, and by the enormous sense
of reserved power with which he impressed her
'' can you read the future too ? "

Doctor Ledbury smiled.

No ; only to the extent that we all can.
Given a certain type of character, you can
prophesy pretty well the course it will take."

And that course in the case of my nephew

is-the

smile left the physician's face, and he
grew suddenly reserved. Elizabeth, Who was
hanging on his words with eagerness of which
she was herself unconscious, felt her heart sink
in spite of herself.

I cannot tell you that," he answered, very
gravely and almost inaudibly. He looked
towards the door, and glanced at his watch.
You must excuse me. Miss Otway ; but "

'one moment, pray!" she begged, her blue
eyes flashing with strange excitement. *' Give
me one more proof of your skill, I implore you f
You have met here  you have seen with my
brother  a relative of ours "

She paused, and Doctor Ledbury looked
down searchingly  for every glance of his
was searching  into her face.

** And you wish to know what I have read
in his expression ? "

It was hardly a question  it was an assertion.
Elizabeth signed assent, with her lips
parted and her breath coming fast.

I am not hazarding so much in this case.

as I have had the honour of spending sometime
in that gentleman's society. I may trust
in your discretion, Miss Otway ? "

'' You may, Indeed."

"Well, then, don't trust in his."

She trembled. She was going to ask
another 'question, when he turned towards the
door and raised his hand warningly.

I can tell you no more. Miss Otway. I
dare say you know a great deal more than a
stranger's eyes can read."

And he passed out into the hall just as
Johnson was approaching the library to
announce that the carriage was at the door.
Some strange feeling of superstitious terror
seized Elizabeth, already much excited. In spite
of her strength of nerve, by her interview with
him, as he shook hands with her ; and the
touch of the cold, firm hand chilled her as the
touch of her own had so often chilled others.

She shuddered, with almost a sense of
relief, as the door closed, and she heard the
carriage wheels roll down the drive, bearing
away the physician of the keen eyes and the
magnetic touch from Waringham Hall with its
gloom and its mysteries.

CHAPTER XII.

When Miss Elizabeth Otway accompanied
Doctor Ledbury downstairs, she left her
nephew standing irresolutely at his uncle's
door, warned not to enter, and indeed unwilling
to do so.

He had been quite as strongly impressed
as the rest of the household by the physician's
striking appearance and reserved, dignified
manner, but not in quite the same way. James
was a weak man ; but his weakness was moral,
not intellectual ; it lay rather in indecision and
indolence than in lack of wit. And he was
struck by one little peculiarity about Doctor
Ledbury which had been unnoticed or differently
interpreted by the rest of the family.
He sauntered across the landing, leaned over
the bannisters, and watched the great man ashe

and Miss Elizabeth descended the staircase
with dignified steps and disappeared into the
outer hall on their way to the library.

It was very curious  very curious, he
thought, as he watched the little bald place
on the top of the doctor's head over which
the fair hair, encouraged to grow long round
that spot, was carefully brushed to hide that
tell-tale sign of advancing age. Had any one
else noticed the one thing about the physician's
manner which had attracted his attention ? he
wondered, as he stood erect and again approached
his uncles door. Doctor Ledbury
was a great man, he knew ; in every respect
but that one his appearance and manners were
exactly what one would expect from a man of
high intelligence and cultivation, with just that
touch of graceful quackery which made him
chary of his words, to impress the remembrance
that they were valuable, with the low voice
that could not disturb the most delicate invalid,
the calm face which gave the Idea of reserved
power. Then where on earth had he picked
up that one significant habit ?

As James stood by the door of the sickroom,

Still uncertain whether he should brave
the shock to his uncle by going in alone, or
wait for the unsympathetic companionship of
his Aunt Elizabeth, a very slight noise made
him turn round. The sound, which seemed to
come from his uncle's dressing-room, the door
of which was the next along the corridor, was
so faint that, at a time when his nerves were
in a less excited state, he would not have
noticed it. As it was, he turned towards the
bracket on the wall outside his uncle's door, to
turn up the lamp which stood there, and, while
doing so, he heard another sound. Glancing
back again along the corridor, he saw nothing ;
but another faint noise, coming this time from
the staircase, made him dart across the landing
and look down. The hall laipp intercepted his
view ; but he fancied he saw a man's figure
descend the last steps, and go through the door
into the outer hall by which his aunt and the
physician had passed a few minutes before.
However, he could hear nothing.

Johnson, is that you ? " he called out.

There was no answer. The butler had
shown so little pleasure in his society, and even,

on the occasion of their last brief interview, so
much absolute fear of him, that James could
not but feel that it was very likely the old
servant might take the liberty of shirking his
society. But, on the other hand, it was possible
that this flying figure might have been
Lindley, who had much stronger reasons for
wishing to avoid him. So James hurried down
the stairs, through the central into the outer
hall, where he paused, for there was no one
to be seen. He had heard no door shut ;
there were voices in the library, but they were
those of his younger aunt and Doctor Led-bury.
He had already noticed the fact that
the drawing-room door could not be opened
without creaking ; so, those two being the only
rooms opening into the outer hall, he went
through to the principal entrance, and glanced
through the figured glass panels of the door
into the darkness outside.

It was not so much a hope that he might
find some trace of his enemy in the garden,
where the thick nioht-mist would have made
it easy for a fugitive to escape among the trees,
as a wish to be out of this sepulchral old home

of his, and to forget its ghastly welcome, that
made him open the door and go out into the
cold and darkness, with his hands in his
pockets and his head raised to the murky
clouds, muttering 

Well, at least the air out here isn't musty!"

But his feet had scarcely touched the gravel
when he was arrested by the sight of a girl,
whom he recognized by her figure as being
the same who had run away at his approach
half an hour ago, now running towards him
from the gate of the '' rose corner " opposite.

** Oh, are you the doctor ? " she cried breathlessly,
as soon as she was near him.

'* Yes," answered James, delighted to escape
from his own personality for a few moments
and wishing to detain the Qirl until he could
find out who she was.

She came close to him, and looked up into
his face with great pleading eyes, whose beauty
he could partly see even in the thick gloom of
the closing evening.

Oh, will you tell me how Sir Charles is ?"
Is he better?" she asked, her voice trembling
with anxiety, not noticing that it was a very

Strange thing for a doctor to be walking about
in the garden without his hat.

'' He is very ill," answered James gravely,
examining the upturned face as closely as he
could, and wishing as he did so that the light
was better. For his curiosity was growing ;
the voice was very sweet, and thrilling with
that passionate feeling which the voices which
had greeted him indoors so chillingly lacked.

Very ill ! Oh, do let me see him  do,,
please ! Never mind what they say  what his
sisters say. He does want to see me ; he sent
for me, and they would not let me go to him.
Ask him, only ask him, if he does not want to
see Geraldine." She saw him start, and a
thought struck her. *' Have they been telling
you things about me," she asked fearfully, "saying
I am an impostor and greedy and grasping
and all that ? Indeed, indeed, it is not true 1
Oh, please believe me  how can I make you
believe me ? I only want to see him because
I love him with all my heart, better, a thousand
times better than any one else in the world 1
He has been more than a father to me, for 
for he has done all a father could do for me

VOL. I. iS

when I had no claim upon him at all. Won't
you let me see him ? I will do anything in
the world for you, if you only will. Oh, don't
refuse me ; it will break my heart ! "

She had seized his hand with little nervous
fingers that made his heart leap up in sympathy
as soon as he felt her touch. With head turned
away from her, he instinctively closed his
fingers upon hers with a firm warm answering
pressure which told her at once that her
pleading was not in vain.

*' Then you will take me in ; you won't let
them stop me ? " she whispered, in a low voice
of caressing gratitude, as she moved towards
the entrance with a great light of relief and
eagerness burning in her eyes.

He could see, as the light from the lamp
above the entrance now fell upon her, that she
was beautiful beyond the promise of her early
girlhood ; for he knew who she was, knew that
the slender sweet-voiced woman with melting
dark eyes and gentle manners was the wild
and fierce little vagrant with whom he had satin
the mud in Mr. Corby n's cart-shed nineteen
years as:o.

Deldee ! " said he below his breath,
stepping forward beside the pillar of the portico
to call her back as she put her foot on the step.

She stopped, without uttering a word or a
sound, shivering and not daring to turn.

Deldee ! " He touched her softly, trying
to take her hand.

But she fell back, away from him, deadly
white, with frightened eyes that scarcely dared
to look In his direction.

All right, all right ! " he muttered, withdrawing
his hand abruptly and turning away.
And he thrust his hands into his pockets and
began to walk down the drive whistling.

He had not turned the corner of the house
when Geraldlne darted after him, caught his
arm, and, as that would not stop him, twisted
him round and faced him.

"It is not  you  James?" she asked
slowly, still half frightened and uncertain.

"Yes, It Is I  James. But it doesn't
matter ; it is of no consequence. You will
find the doctor, If you go back ; he will becoming
out In a minute, Miss  er  Miss  "
He could not remember the fancy surname

which had been given her, so he stopped short
and stared over her head at the trees.

Oh ! " said she, in a voice which brought
his eyes down against his will ; and hers were
full of tears.

Deldee, Deldee ! " he cried hoarsely,
selzinof her arms with his hands and looking
down into her face with the greedy, horrible
eagerness of a starving man. *' You are not
orlad to see me ! "

'' Glad ! Oh, James, I am half crazy with
joy ! "

She panted out the words in a whisper,
trembling still at his touch, not daring quite to
believe that it was really he, looking at him
inquiringly, already half shyly. He tried to
take her in his arms ; but she drew back, not
coldly, but timidly ; then, seeing that he looked
half offended at once, she took his right hand
in both hers and laughed a little laugh of
pleasure.

' It is the first welcome I've had, Deldee,"
whispered he in her ear, almost sobbing.

She drew nearer to him and pressed his.
large rough hand against her breast.

Don't, don't ! " she quavered. '' You
make me so miserable. How could you expect
those horrid old witches to welcome you as
warmly as your little sister ? I don't know
what to say to you ; I can't think of anything
nice enough and kind enough. Do look
happier, do be happier. Oh, James, James,
I am so happy and so wretched both together
that I think I shall go mad ! You have seen
him ? " she whispered, her voice growing
anxious again.

'not yet."

Won't they let you see him either ? Oh,
what are they doing to him ? I believe there
is some plot "

So do I. But they can't prevent my
seeing him, and they shan't prevent you now.
Come along. You remember what you said,
that you would do anything for me if I let you
see him ? " said he, stooping down over her.

I remember. But I shouldn't have said
it if I had known it was you."

"You wouldn't!" He stopped, and made
her stop too.

'' No, James. Listen ! " she said, her voice

low, but deep and thrilling with excitement. '' I
have something to teiryou which I have wanted
to tell you all these years ; but  but you know
I couldn't," she added nervously. " I have
thought about it so often, and never dared to
say a word about it to any one. You know it
was you who were my only companion when
I was a child, and you know how good you
always were to me and how you gave way tome
and yielded to me ? "

'' Well, that wasn't any merit. You were
such a dear little thing, one couldn't help it."

'* Oh yes, you were good ! I was too young
to know it then ; but I know it now. And ever
since I have been old enough to know it I have
been longing  oh, longing so deeply !  for some
opportunity of telling you, showing you that
I am grateful. And, James," she went on, her
excitement growing still higher, '' whatever you
have done, and whatever you might do, it
would be just the same."

The young man heard her with a feeling
more dangerous, more stormy than her innocent
enthusiasm stirring in his breast, as he looked
at her beautiful eloquent face. He was nota

blackguard, this unlucky James Otway, though
most respectable people would have put him
under that heading. He knew enough of the
world and of women to feel sure, without
vanity, that this lovely gentle girl, with the
sympathy and sweetness for which he had been
hungering, was not far from being ready to
give him her love : and that he must not take.
He gave one rapid glance 'at her, and, without
answering, drew her in the direction of the house.

Come along ! " he said shortly.

But, as he spoke, they heard the carriage
drive round to the entrance and the hall door
open, and a minute later they had to step back
for the barouche to pass them, while Doctor
Ledbury put his face to the window and raised
his hat.

Who is that ? " asked Geraldine, with
curious eagerness.

'* That is the great Doctor Ledbury."

'* Doctor Ledbury ! " she repeated vaguely.
*' I  I wonder if I have seen him before ? I
seem to know his face."

"Why, you couldn't see much of it by
this light ! "

No-o ; I suppose it was fancy."

I think so. You are nervous to-night ;
all these shocks and surprises have been too
much for you, Deldee," said he, gently.

'eyes, I think they have. When I first
saw you, and did not know you, and ran away
through that gate, I kept imagining all sorts
of horrible things and fancying I could hear my
guardian's voice calling to me, and that they
were doing him some harm. Oh, James,
Waringham Hall is a dreadful place ! It is
like a great cold prison. I can't bear to think
of my guardian's living there, and I don't
wonder you ran away ! Let us make haste
in to him."

They were standing at the corner of the
house, James so much fascinated by her innocent
warmth of welcome, her soft voice, and the
seductiveness of her half-seen beauty, that, on
pretext of giving her time to recover her self-possession,
he was willing to linger a few
minutes longer out there in the night-mist
with her.

'' Better wait till you have  till you are 
till you feel calmer, in fact. It will be very

trying for you, and you must not break down,
you know."

He was standing with his back to the
house, and Geraldine stood, with his hand
placed soothingly on her shoulder, facing him.
These last words of his were scarcely uttered
when she started Violently, and he seized
the occasion to slip his arm round her reassuringly.


*' It is all right ; don't be frightened ; I
won't let anything hurt you."

No, I'm not afraid," said she, resisting
him faintly. " Let us go in, let us go in ; I
think my head is giving way."

Why, child, what is the matter ? What
frightened you ? " he asked quickly.

'' I  I fancied I saw a man running away,
in the mist, over the grass  away from the
house on that side."

She glanced towards the facade of the Hall,
and James turned immediately.

Which way did he go ? " he asked, with
sudden and fierce excitement.

I thought  I fancied he ran straight across
the grass there, where the flower-beds are ; and

then he seemed to make a jump in the air, and
to run down the slope."

But James had already left her, crying,.
Don't be frightened. Wait ; I will come
back ! " as he ran in the direction she had
indicated.

He had not the least doubt that it was the
man they called Lindley, the man whom he felt
convinced he had known as Williams, whom
she had seen escaping. The '' leap in the air "
she had described him as taking was explained
by the fact that a wire fence, invisible to her
eyes in the gloom, separated the lawn in front
of the house, with its flower-beds, from the
rougher, less carefully kept grass of the park
beyond.

Now, although the man of whom he was in
pursuit was active and muscular, he was somewhat
short, somewhat stout, too fashionably
dressed to have the free use of his limbs, and
twenty years older than James. Therefore, the
latter had fair hopes of overtaking him. The
ground sloped very gradually the whole way
from the Hall to the lodge, and in a few-moments
James was at the park gates. But

the lodge-keeper said he had seen no one pass
out on foot ; he had opened the gates for the
carriage a few minutes ago, but he was quite
sure there had been nobody inside it but the
doctor who had arrived from London an hour
or so before. James went back slowly, glancing
right and left, peering among the still bare oak
trees, angry with himself for having again
missed the man whom he persisted in believing
to be his enemy. It was not until he was in
sight of Geraldine that he remembered her, and
quickened his pace.

Who was It ? Did you see any one ? "
she asked anxiously.

*' No, Deldee, I missed him. Well, at any
rate, we have only the Gorgon to cope with
now," he said, as If trying to throw a weight off
his mind. " Let us storm the fortress."

They went up to the entrance, James rang
the bell, and the door was opened Immediately
by the butler, who had by this time recovered
his usual stately serenity, and was prepared to
treat his masters nephew with the courtly
respect due to Sir Charles's heir, having come
to the conclusion that Sir Charles's influence

would naturally be strong enough to hush up
any little unpleasantness with '' the authorities."

*' The red room has been prepared for you
for to-night, sir," he said, as soon as they were
in the hall. " We can get any room you would
prefer ready by tomorrow night, if you would
please sleep there to-night, sir. We have not
had much need of spare rooms lately ; but Lord
Yarmouth slept there when he was here a
month ago, and I think you will find it pretty
comfortable."

'' Thank you ; you need not trouble yourself
about preparations for me ; Tm not going
to stay. Just get me something to eat, and
have the dog-cart or the phaeton  if either is
still in existence  brought round in time to
catch the next train to town. You will have to
look sharp  it is half-past seven now."

Very well, sir."

Johnson retired, and at the same moment
Elizabeth came out of the library. At sight
of Geraldine the expression of anxiety in her
face hardened to one of dislike and suspicion.
She did not speak to her, however ; turning at
once to her nephew, she said 

*' James, will you come in here for a
minute ? "

"Will it do if I come in ten minutes,,
aunt?"

'' No, it must be now. It is important 
most important."

'' Will you wait here for me, Decree ? " he
said kindly to the girl, in a low voice. " I can't
take you into the drawing-room, because there
is another Gorgon there," he added in a whisper,
close to her ear.

'' Very well. Only don't let her persuade
you not to let me see him. You know you
have promised, James ! " she whispered back
imploringly.

*' Trust me," he assured her, pressing her
arm gently, and giving a lingering affectionate
look at her entreating face, prettier than ever in
the lamplight, as he followed his aunt into the
library.

As soon as he had closed the door behind
him, he saw by the look on his aunt's face that
it was no lioht elinor that troubled her. Her
white skin looked like marble, her eyes were
glassy her upright figure shook as she stood

supporting herself with one hand upon the
bureau.

James, I have been robbed ! " she said
hoarsely.

"Robbed! By whom?"

*' The man who Alas here five minutes ago."

The doctor ! Ah, I am not In the least
surprised ! I could have sworn he was a gaolbird
! "

"The doctor! Doctor Ledbury! What
do you mean, James ?"

Why, that If ever a man had the convict's
walk, It is your world renowned physician,
Doctor Ledbury ! "

James, are you mad ? Do you know what
you are saying  of whom you are speaking ? "

Yes ; either of an Impostor who is not
Doctor Ledbury at all, or else of a man who
has once committed a crime, has served his
time, begun life again, lived it down, and goton.
He Is not a young man, you know but
that he picked up that walk In a convict prison
I'll swear."

Elizabeth looked startled for a moment ;
then she laughed a hard laugh. It was

naturally the sort of accusation her unfortunate
nephew would bring against any one
to whom he had taken a dislike.

Unhappily for your theory, 3'ou have made
It to fit the wrongs man. It is not Doctor
Ledbury who has robbed me  yes, and robbed
you  but LIndley, the man you met in the
drawing-room, the man you declared to be
your enemy. Well, if you were mistaken then,
you would be right now."

What has he stolen ? " asked James, with
deepest attention.

Papers  whether genuine or forged I
don't yet know  but which concern us all
most deeply. He had them with him when
he was shut in with your uncle ; then he
showed me two of them boastfully, and I tell
you they were of vital Importance. In your
struggle together, he left his coat in your hands,
and I picked it up and took out the papers.
Then, a few minutes ago, as Doctor Ledbury
had left In fact, I came in here and took
them out of my pocket to read, having first
locked the door. Suddenly LIndley, who must
have slipped into the room when I went outwith

the doctor, darted from behind the screen,,
seized the papers, and made off through the
window, wrenching himself out of my grasp as
I tried to stop him. Of course I dared not call
out. There  you can see where his foot went."

She walked to the nearest of the twO'
French windows, which were about a foot from
the floor, opened it, and showed her nephew
the traces of Lindley's descent on the narrow
flower-bed which ran the length of the front of
the house, close under the wall.

James took it very coolly.

'' Yes ; Geraldine saw him," he said, nod-dine
at the flower-bed. " But I couldn't catch
him. I think he must have hidden himself
somewhere among the trees, for I know his
boots are always too tight for him to run very


But what are we to do ? " she asked, m
consternation.

We can't do anything. He's got away,
you see ; and you can't do much to a man who
is out of reach."

'' But the papers ? "

You say that they were his ? "

'' Yes, but they concerned us  you."

'well, then, we must wait till he turns up
with them. He can't do much with any papers
unless he produces them himself; and then,
whatever they might contain, I should think
that a cheap bargain which put him within
reach of my hands," said James, the savage
look coming again into his eyes.

But I tell you they would ruin you ! " cried
she, irritated by his lack of energy and interest.

'' No, no, aunt ; that has been done," said
he, sinking into sullen indifference.

"Well, then, think of us. Lindley holds
papers which, if they are genuine, or if the
forgery is clever enough, will leave Eleanor
and me without a penny."

James looked puzzled. At last he said 

Look here. Aunt Elizabeth  instead of
worrying yourself about Lindley and his papers,
why don't you go up to my uncle and ask him
about it ? If it concerns you and me and Aunt
Eleanor, I suppose it concerns him, and he is
the only person Who is likely to be able to
help you."

But she hesitated.

VOL. I. 19

If," she began, and stopped.
James rose. He hated mysteries, and he
would at all times rather have let everything
he possessed slip through his fingers than have
bothered himself about papers and documents.

''I don't see how you can expect a man
you know to be a scamp, and his confederate,
to play hide-and-seek all over the house without
helping themselves to something. If he
has taken nothing but a few papers of his
own concoction, you may think yourselves
lucky. If I had been here when his 'doctor'
came, I would have told Johnson to keep an
eye on the plate-basket."

Elizabeth pursed up her lips.
I am not a girl, James, without judgment
or discrimination. There was no need to warn
me against Lindley Fielding ; and, if there had
been, Doctor Ledbury himself, whom you call
his confederate, told me not to trust him."

Oh yeS; that is an old trick ! " said James,
who was stubborn and didactic in argument.
'* ' I'll run after him and see if he's got it,
ma'am,' says the thief who has the lady's purse
in his pocket of the ' pal ' who ' covered ' him

while he took it." This simile, savouring so
strongly of her nephew's recent associations,
made Elizabeth shudder. '' I tell you," he
went on, not noticing the effect his words had
upon his aunt, " at some time or other in his
life that man has been a convict  and surely I
ought to know better than you ! "

The cynical coolness with which he uttered
the last words appalled the lady, who would
fain have put the hideous fact of his crime and
its punishment out of sight as long as he should
remain in her society. But these two matter-of-course
allusions seemed to argue that he
had lost all sense of shame both at his imprisonment
and its cause. She was glad when
he walked towards the door, saying 

I am going up now to see Uncle Charles,
and, if he is well enough, I will try to find out
all I can for you."

'one moment, James. Are you going to
take that girl up with you ? "

Geraldine ? Yes," said he, decisively.

Very well. I know you will not listen
to me ; the affection of an old aunt who has
loved you since your childhood does not weigh

a feathers weight against one smile, one
whisper from a young girl. But I tell you,
and you may remember it some day when she
has drained you as she has done your uncle,
when she has robbed you as she has robbed
us, that this girl whom you are now taking,
perhaps to disturb your uncle's last moments,
has been the curse of all our lives ! "

James had stopped at the door, and, ashe
listened, a change came over his face, and
his lounging, careless attitude gradually gave
place to one more attentive, more erect. As
she finished speaking, he turned his eyes from
the lamp, at which he had been staring in the
fixed way usual with him when excited by
any strong emotion.

Aunt," he said, in a low, full voice that
enforced attention, " you are falling from one
mistake into another. If, as you describe, you
had really ' loved me since my childhood,' there
would not be in the world a girl with a smile ora
whisper sweet enough to make me act against
your wishes  reasonable or unreasonable. I
am easy enough to lead. Heaven knows ! But
you never did love me  never took the slightest

interest in me till I began to bring home prizes
and be talked about as a smart lad. Of course
I was bullied and snubbed ' for my good,' and
that it was my natural perversity which made
me resent it. And I know too that I should
be overstating the case if I were to say that
I disappeared from you all because of your
unsympathetic hardness, and that, if I had had
a sweeter home to remember, I might have 
might have lived a life less unworthy of it. I 
I don't know about that. But I do know this,
that, if you were to turn from this moment into
an angel of sweetness to me, I could never
forget your unkindness to me in my boyhood
or your cold welcome this evening. And if
that little girl, now shivering in the dungeon
outside there, were to change into a demon and
to tear my eyes out, why, I would feel my way
sightless to her little hands and kiss them for
the sake of those few words, ' James, I'm glad
to see you ! ' which she spoke to me in the
garden just now." His voice broke towards
the end, and his eyes, which had wandered
away from his aunt again, grew moist and
shining. Then he gathered himself together,

cleared his throat, and, saying simply, " Til be
down again in a few minutes, aunt, and tell you
what he says," he left the room.

Geraldine, who had been walking about the
hall to avoid hearing what they said through
the door as their voices rose, turned and looked
at him apprehensively ; but he was very soft-mannered
and gentle, and was smiling and
looking happier than she had seen him yet
since their meeting.

Tired of waiting, Deldee ? " he asked, ashe
drew her hand through his arm, and bent
down to smile into her face as he led her
through the inner hall and up the staircase.

Oh no ! " she replied in a whisper. Her
excitement was rising as the longed-for moment
of meeting her guardian drew near. '' I  I
heard you speaking so loudly ; I was afraid
you were angry about something."

'eyes, I had turned the tables and was bullying
my aunt. It has done me good," said he.

They were at the top of the staircase now.
She was trembling so much that for a few
seconds she could not have stood steadily without
his support. She seemed, however, at that

time unconscious of his presence, for he saw
her eyeHds fall and her lips move, and he held
his breath and stood like a statue, lest the
remembrance of his being there might disturb
her silent prayer. Then she stepped forward
more calmly, as he led her to the door of his
uncle's room and knocked. In a few instants
the housekeeper's slow steps were heard, and
Mrs. Symes opened the door and presented
a face whose lean and withered old features
were still distorted and ghastly from the alarms
and surprises of which she had seen and heard
more than any one else that night. She had
evidently heard of James's arrival, for, on seeing
him, she only uttered one moaning ejaculation,
and then she looked at the unknown lady.

How is he now, Mrs. Symes ? " asked
James. '' Is he conscious ? "

'' Yes, sir, he is conscious, I believe ; but
he's sinking rapid."

Geraldine drew a long breath of agony, but
uttered no other sound. James could not bear
to look at her face.

You go in first, my child," he whispered.
'' Mrs. Symes, you ask if he will see her."

'' Who shall I say, sir ? "

'' Say, ' Will you see her ? ' "

The old housekeeper left the door ajar as
she approached the bed and drew aside the
curtain so that they could see the face of the
sick man, who was lying back half raised on
a heap of pillows with his eyes closed, quite
still. At sight of him James felt that a thrill
shot through the frame of the girl whose hand
he still held in his arm.

Will you see her, sir ? " they heard the old
woman say slowly and without intelligence.

But quick as thought the sick man opened
his eyes, and a great radiance of light and joy
seemed to beam from his pale face. The
housekeeper moved aside. Geraldine slipped
away from her companion and softly crept in
and up to the bedside. Gently she clasped
her arms round him and pressed her lips to the
lined, worn face ; but the beloved touch sent an
electric thrill of strength to the dying man's
paralyzed frame. He moved one arm, which
she drew tenderly up to her neck, and, with
faltering but distinct speech, he cried 

My daughter, my own  own child ! " And,

after a moment, he whispered less clearly, 'call
me father ! Say it  quick ! "

My father ! " whispered the girl, whose
tears were falling fast in spite of herself.

Don't cry, child ! James will  take care
of you. James  James ! "

On hearing his uncle, whom he had believed
to be unconscious of his vicinity, call him byname,
James almost staggered. Then, recovering
from the shock of his surprise, he slowly
and gravely entered the room. He was close
to the bed before Sir Charles, who was still
gazing lovingly at Geraldine, raised his eyes
and saw him. To the horror of them all, the
sick man struggled up and stared at his nephew
with a cry of amazement and terror ; the next
moment, still with one arm round Geraldine's
neck, he fell back upon his pillows  dead !

CHAPTER I.

The heavy mists of the April night had crept
through the doors and windows of Waring-ham
Hall, and deepened the gloom of the big,,
bare-looking rooms, when the death-cry of its
master rang through the house, startling the
two Misses Otway, as they sat in the drawing-room
underneath, penetrating to the servants'
hall, where the old servants sat cowering, on
the alert for the unusual after the strange
arrivals and surprises of the evening.

There was a horrible silence in the death-chamber
for a few moments ; only one of the
three living occupants of it had any idea what

VOL. II. 20

that last strange cry uttered by Sir Charles
might mean. The old housekeeper, whose
gray, wan face bore the seal of some great
terror, was the most composed of the three ;
she disengaged the almost fainting Geraldine
from the lifeless arms that still held her, and,
turning to James, in whose ears the terrible cry
still rang, she whispered In her quivering old
voice 

Won't you take her downstairs, sir ? "
He started, looked from the old woman to
the young one, and, touched by the girl's mute
misery, glad of something to do to dispel the
eerie feeling of a nameless horror, which in
him took the place of grief at the strange end
of the uncle who had never cared about him,
he led her gently from the room and down
the staircase. But, though he held her arm
affectionately In his, and mechanically spoke
kind and soothing words to her, his mind was
occupied  now that the shock of the death-scene
was past  by a hundred strange and perplexing
questions. There was some mystery
here, of which perhaps that sudden death had
sealed the solution for ever. Why, If his uncle

had expected to see him, as his calling him by
his name had seemed to indicate, had he experienced
a shock so great at sight of him that
it was probably the immediate cause of his
death ? And what was the meaning of his
calling Geraldine, in that earnest tone of deep
and joyful gratitude, his daughter, his own
child ? It had not sounded like a vague term
of affection, that trembling, sobbing heart-cry ;
it had struck James at once, as he heard it, as
raising a perplexing question, to which perhaps
now the answer would never be given. He
could see that neither of these mysteries occupied
the girl on his arm, whose whole heart
and mind were entirely absorbed in her passionate
grief. She was trying hard to keep
from crying, and her frame was trembling with
the effort ; but the sobs would rise to her lips,
and, hang her head as she would, he could seethe
tears falling.

'* Don't cry, there's a dear," whispered he
gently, but ineffectually, as he stopped with herat
the foot of the staircase while she dried her
eyes. '* He was very good, you know, wasn't
he ? So he is sure to be all right," said he, ina

shy but soft attempt to administer religious
consolation.

'' Oh yes, I am not afraid of that ! He was
the best man that ever lived. You don't know
how good he was ! " she whispered earnestly,
looking up with red swollen eyes which touched
James, who was soft-hearted about women's
tears, and did not notice, in his anxiety to
comfort her, how they spoilt her pretty face.

No," he said rather shortly. " I've no
doubt he was very good to you  nobody could
help it. But you should not be so miserable,
Deldee dear; you know he can't have been
very happy living here with my aunts ! "

Oh, James, how could he bear it ? " she
asked, a sudden sense of the marvellous stopping
her tears for the moment, as she looked
up at him with an awestruck expression of
face.

Heaven knows ! " said he solemnly.

What will they say ? They don't know ;
you will have to tell them ! "

*eyes. Would you mind coming in with
me, Deldee ? I can't leave you now, and I
won't let them bite you, and  and, to tell }'ou

the truth, I would rather not face the hags
alone. I don't know what they will do."

Ye-es, I'll go in with you ; only don't 
don't let the hard one speak to me now, or I
shall break down, or fly at her, or run away ;
I  I really couldn't bear it, if she were to  to
besoin again now ! "

And the girl shuddered.

"What, has she attacked you already tonight
? The she-devil ! " he added below his
breath. '' No, don't be afraid ; she shan't
annoy you again."

So, fortified by their mutual support, the
woman leaning on the man's strong arm, but
communicating to him her own firm spirit, they
entered the drawing-room together.

Elizabeth, who had followed James out of
the library when he left her, was sitting on
the sofa beside her sister, feeling for once the
need of a human touch in the horror with
which the piercing cry, whose significance she
did not yet understand, had filled her. She
looked up as the door opened, and her face
contracted as her nephew and the girl she
hated advanced up the room together. Something

in their faces gave her warning before
either spoke. She started up and tried to
speak, but could not.

"How is Charles?" moaned the shivering
Eleanor, whose head was half buried among the
cushions of the sofa. " It was very unkind of
you to let the doctor go away without seeing me.
I want a doctor quite as badly as Charles does."

Yes, aunt ; uncle Charles will never want
a doctor again."

She gave a little cry, and fell to moaning
and weeping, while her sister, very quiet, very
still, but with a fever of anxiety burning brightly
in her hard eyes, went up to him, laid her hand
on his arm, and beckoned him aside. He
glanced at Deldee, who slipped away, and,
kneeling down beside the poor down-broken
old woman on the sofa, applied herself to
comforting her as well as she could with
smelling-salts and caressing hands. Elizabeth,
meanwhile, led her nephew to the other end of
the room.

What was  the meaning of  that cry ? "
she asked, her voice not quite steady. '' Was
it  Charles ? "

Yes, it was the last sound my uncle
uttered, and he uttered It on seeing  me. He
seemed to know I was near, for he called me
by my name ; yet, when I appeared, he started
up with the cry you heard, as If In terror ; and
then he fell back  dead. Can you explain this?"

It was very dark at the end of the room
where they were standing ; but James, who
spoke slowly, with his eyes fixed upon his
aunt's face, saw her first look of utter bewilderment
give place to a glimmer of Intelligence,
as If a possible clue to the mystery  not by
any means a full solution, but still a clue  had
occurred to her.

Can you think of any explanation ? " he
asked again, as she gave no answer to his first
question.

None," she replied, this time promptly.

And it was on her nephew s lips to tell her
that she lied. As, however, this course would
certainly have produced no good result, he
checked himself, and only said rather drily 

I am sorry you cannot help me, because
there was another rather curious point upon
which I had thought of consulting you."

Each maintained a guarded attitude, and the
glances they exchanged at this moment were
alight with mutual mistrust. Elizabeth turned
towards him with an impulsive show of confidence.


Don't force me to speak too soon, or I
may spoil the value of what I only partly know
by helping it out with wrong guesses. I have
a suspicion, a very strong suspicion ; as soon as
I make it a certainty, if I do make it a certainty,
you shall know it. Now, what have
you to tell me ? "

' Nothing. I have to ask you something.
Who is Geraldine's father ? "

In spite of herself, Elizabeth started. He
caught her arm.

Quick  speak ! You do know something
this time ! "

Yes, I do," she answered, recovering her
serenity. " But it is something you will not
like to hear."

'* Never mind. But tell me the truth."

" Geraldine's father, I have every reason to
believe, is Lindley Fielding."

'' Lindley ! That scoundrel ! Impossible ! "

cried James aloud, startling the two women at
the sofa.

'' Hush ! " cried his aunt. '' Don't shout
so ! She does not know."

But it is not true. Good Heavens, I
never heard such nonsense ! "

'' Why call it nonsense ? Compare her face
with his mothers portraits, and you will no
longer say so. As for his character, that does
not affect her, you know," she added, with
something almost like eagerness in her voice.

'' But what reason have you for supposing
this ? My uncle never thought so, I am sure."

If you had been here for the whole of the
last two days, and had seen Lindley, and heard
the confident manner in which he talked, you
would agree with me. He came here with the
determination to persuade poor Charles to
adopt the girl ; you were no longer in the way
to oppose such a project ; the way was clear.
We shall probably hear more of the matter ina
few days, when Lindley appears, or gets
some one to appear for him, with the will he
professes to have seen Charles make."

James was silent for a few instants.

'' It is a very extraordinary business," said
he at last, " and not quite so simple as you
describe , I fancy ! Surely, if the girl had been
Lindley's child, we should have heard something
of this before. Now, I have a different
theory to suggest, which accounts just as well
for her resemblance to Aunt Henrietta."

'' And that is " said Elizabeth, trying

to hide her deep anxiety.

'well, I'll think it over, and tell you the
result of my reflections and inquiries. In the
meantime, aunt, if only out of consideration for
my uncle's [deep affection for her, I must beg
you to treat her kindly   I will even say I insist
upon it."

Elizabeth looked up at her nephew curiously.
He was assuming the airs of mastership very
promptly ; a great change seemed to have come
over him already since that interview in the
library, in which she had felt for the greater
part of the time that the reins were in her own
hands as surely as they had been when she was
dealing with her brother. James was easily
led, as he had said ; but was it already decided
that it was not she who was to lead him ? She

must prepare for a struggle for authority, she
saw ; in the meantime, dutiful and prompt
submission was the best plan.

There is no need to Insist upon that point,
James," she said quietly. ''If poor Charles had
not adopted the extraordinary plan of hiding
her away from us, which of course puts out of
the question the theory of a secret marriage
which Lindley may try to set up, we should
have opened our arms to the girl years ago.
Now that you adopt the more sensible plan of
appealing to our kindness, she shall have no
reason to complain of her reception."

And, oflad to close the tete-astute, Elizabeth
straightway left him to follow her while she
made her way to the sofa, and, pressing Geraldine
gently down again as the girl tried to rise
from the kneeling position in which she was
still consoling Miss Eleanor, she said, In a tone
which would have won the girl's heart but for
that cruel scene of an hour ago which the elder
lady seemed to have forgotten 

Don't move, my child. We need all the
sympathy your warm young heart can give
us now."

And she put her slender white hand on
the girl's shoulder as [Geraldine instinctively
recoiled, and said in a low voice in her ear 

' I have been mad with anxiety and grief
this evening. If I said anything to pain you in
my paroxysm of sorrow when you so unexpectedly
came upon us in our trouble, forgive
me, dear child. You cannot measure misery
like mine."

This was true ; but Geraldine found it
difficult not to shrink from her caresses, difficult
to tell the necessary courteous falsehood that
it did not matter. For she could not forgive
this woman whose cruelty had wrung her heart,
and whose handsome blue eyes remained hard
through her cooing conciliatory speeches. The
little selfish, groaning, exacting Eleanor, who
had unconsciously revelled in the attentions
and soft touch and soft speech of the young
girl, seemed an angel of light compared with
her still handsome and stately sister.

'will you stay here to-night? It is late
for you to return to Copsley, and I will myself
take you safely back to Miss Gretton tomorrow
morning," Elizabeth said solicitously, being

rather anxious for an opportunity of making-fuller
amends to this hateful interloper, who
threatened, whatever course affairs might take,
to become a stronger power than ever at
Warlngham.

Oh no, thank you ! Mrs. Bamber has
asked me to spend the night at the Vicarage,
and Mr. Reginald Bamber has promised  to
come and fetch me," said Geraldine rather
shyly.

Reginald Bamber ! " broke in James, in a
not altogether pleased tone. '' Oh, does he loaf
about the Vicarage still ? He is old enough to
be out in the world, I should think. Why, he
must be over thirty by this time ! "

Oh yes ; he is in partnership with a publishing
firm in New York ! " said Geraldine,
eaofer to defend her friend from the charge of
loafing. ''He is only here on a visit ; he is
going back soon ; he told me so."

'' Oh ! " said James. '' And he is going to
take you to the Vicarage to-night ? Oh, well,
ril save him the trouble ; 111 take you there
myself ! The carriage will be round in a minute
to take me to the station, and I can drop you

on my way." He did not speak very good-tempered.
Reginald Bamber and he had
never been very good friends ; Reginald never
quarrelled with anybody, and this fact had been
a constant source of irritation to James, who
was hot-tempered and strong-limbed, and had
always been rather fond, in his boyhood, of a
row with a fight as the climax. His ill-humour
increased when Geraldine said hesitatingly 

I think I must wait for him, James, as he
promised. You see it was he who brought me
here."

''He brought you here ! How was that ? "

'' He drove over to Copsley with a message

from " Her voice trembled ; she could

not pronounce the dear name again yet. " A
message to say I  was sent for."

Before James could add another question,
his aunt Elizabeth changed the subject.

But surely, you are not going away tonight,
James ? She was getting more and more
puzzled as to the circumstances of his visit, and
yet none of them dared broach the subject with
him.

*eyes, I am," he answered obstinately,

*' What should I stay here for ? My spirits are
low enough already, and my presence is not
likely to raise yours much, I should think. I
have a room at an hotel in Ipswich."

Once more the air of gloomy undecided
restlessness, which the shock of the death-scene
upstairs and the need of comforting Deldee
had for a short time dispersed, was settling on
him. Again his eyes were fixed vacantly upon
the opposite wall, and his fingers played listlessly
with the antimacassar on the back of a
chair in front of him. The three women looked
at him shyly, their minds all filled with the
same question. Before any one spoke again,
the door-bell rang.

Reginald Bamber, I suppose ? " said Elizabeth.


But it was not Reginald ; it was his father,
the Vicar. It was so long before any one was
announced that James, growing impatient, went
out into the hall and found Mr. Bamber divesting
himself carefully of macintosh, muffler,
respirator, and overshoes. It was a very
exceptional event for him to go out at all after
the evening dews had begun to fall ; but he

had been anxious about his old friend Sir
Charles and the curious state of affairs up at
the Hall, and so had represented to his son
that it would be more proper for him to escort
Miss Lindley to the Vicarage himself. He had
just learnt the baronet's death and James's
arrival from the butler, and all he could find
breath to utter in his guttural sepulchral voice
was " Good gracious ! " He was saying it for
the fourth or fifth time as the young man came
out and greeted him.

'' I'm very glad to see you, my dear boy ! "
said the Vicar, bewildered, shaking hands with
him cordially, however. " Come for  for a long
stay, I hope ? " he hazarded, hovering, as the
butler and every one else had hovered, between
the ideas of a ticket-of-leave and of escape.

James's answer suggested the latter as the
correct view.

"No, I'm going away already. This place
is a sepulchre for the living as well as the dead ;
I should go mad if I stayed here a week."

'* But at such a time as this it would be
more becoming to stay  if you could manage
it," hinted the Vicar, knowing that an escaped

convict has other points besides his own convenience
to consider.

'* I have done with questions of convenience,"
said James, shortly. " I don't know
what instinct made me come back here at all ;
a much stronger one prompts me to get away
from it as fast as I can."

*' And where are you going ? " asked the
Vicar, in a practical tone.

*' I don't know, and I don't care. As faraway
as I can get from every one who has
ever known me  to the bottom of the sea,
perhaps."

*' Oh, nonsense ! " said the Vicar, shaking
his head in much irritation. '' A most absurd,
most unmanly idea. A misspent youth or a
fatal act cannot be retrieved at the bottom of
the sea."

James began to look sullen.

There is no retrieval possible for me," he
said. " I'm ruined ; done for. If I still stick
to life, it will not be to retrieve my own
faults, but to revenge myself on the man who
encouraged me to indulge in them."

Dear me  most unchristian, most unchris-
voL. n. 2 1

/

tian ! " muttered the Vicar, shaking the moisture
off his macintosh. " His errors, whatever they
may be, are not your affair ; they will be more
dispassionately considered in another quarter.
You are a young man in the prime of your
youth, with a strong pair of arms and a chest
that I would give anything for. You have
thrown away your position  well, get another.
Take a spade and go to one of the colonies, as
many a better and a better-born man too, for
the matter of that, has done before you. What
is the good of revenge ? It will only put you
back again where you have just come from ;
you will be exceedingly uncomfortable until
you have got it, and a good deal more uncomfortable
still afterwards. Take my advice, my
dear boy, and give it up."

The Vicar had by this time taken off his
overcoat and his woollen gloves, and turned
down his trousers. James accompanied him
as far as the drawing-room door, and there
said 

*' You will find my aunts and Miss  Miss 
and Geraldine in there, Mr. Bamber. Will
you excuse me while I go up and speak to

the housekeeper ? I have to catch a train to
Ipswich to-night, and I must see Mrs. Symes
before I go."

The Vicar, after a look at the gloomy
vacant expression of the young man's face, felt
strongly averse from letting him go ; but,
having no excuse to offer for detaining him,
he was obliged to enter the drawing-room
alone. His first remark, however, after he had
offered his heartfelt condolences to the sisters,
who were both sobbing now, while Geraldine
sat, tearless and anxious, a little apart from the
group, was 

'' We must not forget the living in our grief
for the dead, Elizabeth  that young fellow,
your nephew, ought In my opinion to be
watched."

At these words Geraldine started up, and,
unnoticed except by the Vicar, crept to the
door and made her escape into the hall. She
had scarcely got to the staircase when she met
Johnson coming out of the dining-room.

'' Have you seen Mr. James, Johnson ?" she
whispered,

'' I met Sir James just now. Miss Geraldine,"

corrected the butler respectfully, 'eon his way-upstairs.
He asked where Mrs. Symes was,
as he desired to speak with her."

'' Oh ! " said she, hesitating. But Johnson
was an old friend in whom she might confide ;
so, after a moment, she asked timidly, " Did he
seem quite  quite calm, Johnson ? "

'' Oh yes, ma'am, he seemed calm enough 
too calm to my thinking, considering we've just
lost  the  the best of gentlemen ! " quavered
the old servant.

''He is too unhappy himself to feel it as
keenly as we do, you know, Johnson," said she,
not very steadily. "He is more to be pitied
than any of us, I think. He says you used to
be kind to him once ; don't join the rest in
being hard to him now."

Well, he's oot a better defender than mein
you, ma'am ! "

Why, yes ; don't you know that if it hadn't
been for him, I should never have seen  seen
him again," she went on earnestly; "that he
brought me in and led me upstairs himself?
Oh, I would forgive him anything, anything in
the world, just for that ! "

'' It does seem strange, Miss Geraldine,
don't it, that both times it should have been
Master James that brought you into Waringham
Hall  a sort of fate-like, ma'am, if one was
superstitious ? "

Both times ! What do you mean, Johnson
? " asked the girl, suddenly trembling.

He saw that he had gone too far. If the
grief and the surprises of the evening had not
played havoc with his usual discretion, he would
never have let slip that unlucky remark. Her
interest once roused by such a question as that,
nothing but the truth would content her ; and,
as she let him know that she had learnt part of
the truth about her parentage, he at last most
reluctantly told her that it was Master James
who had found her  he declined to say where
but who had brought her to the hall nineteen
years ago, and had thus been the means of
introducing her to Sir Charles. She listened
without a word of comment, or any other sound
than an occasional faint sob, as the tears rained
down her cheeks.

And now Master  Sir James will be most
dreadfully angry with me for telling you. Miss

Geraldlne ; but it slipped out somehow  I don't
know how  in spite of myself."

*' He shall not be angry with you, Johnson,"
the girl assured him, taking the old servant's
hand in hers. " Or, even if he is at first, you
shall not suffer for this, I promise you. You have
rendered me a service I shall never forget."

Thank you, ma'am," said he, reverentially,
much impressed by the resolute dignity with
which the young lady spoke.

And he retired, leaving her still standing in
the hall, at the bottom of the carved oak staircase,
looking mechanically at the great pictures
on the walls, with her head and her heart in a
tumult of new thoughts, new feelings. When
at last she heard James's footsteps in the corridor
above, she felt her limbs trembling and a
choking sensation in her throat, which warned
her that she would find it difficult to keep her
voice under control.

He came lounging down with an angry,
disappointed expression of face. He had questioned
the old housekeeper searchingly concerning
the events of the evening ; but she had
answered him in a manner which impressed him

With the conviction that she had been skilfully
tampered with, and that she was in possession
of important facts which nothing he could say
would induce her to disclose. By nature rather
a slow-witted, stupid woman, she had by some
means been persuaded or threatened into that
strongest of safeguards, silence ; and it appeared
that whatever events of interest had taken place
in the course of the evening had occurred while
she was *ein the next room." But, in the face
of this mechanically given excuse, the leaden
colour her features had assumed, the stiff contraction
of the deep lines round her eyes and
mouth, bore witness to some great terror
through which she had passed, which had set
its seal upon her for the rest of her days. So
that, baffled in his inquiries, oppressed by the
mystery which deepened tenfold the gloom of
the death-stricken household, he descended the
stairs, anxious to get out of the place as quickly
as possible.

Johnson, Johnson, is the phaeton round
yet ? " he called, in an instinctively subdued
voice as he came down, hearing a sound in the
hall below him.

But It was not the butler who came forward
out of the shadow as he reached the bottom
step ; it was Geraldine.

'' Oh, James, you are not going ! " she cried,
as she seized his hand. " Don't go while
you are so unhappy  don't ; I can't bear the
thought of it. You must stay and hear what I
have to say ; you must stay and let me thank
you  I have only just found out what I have to
thank you for."

*' Why, what is that ? " asked he very gently,
utterly bewildered by the passionate gratitude
which shone in her face and thrilled her low
voice, and made the touch of her fingers electric
with deep feeling.

Everything, everything  my guardian's
love and care and kindness  everything that has
made my life worth living  everything but life
itself Oh, James, have you forgotten what
you did for me nineteen years ago ? "

'' Deldee, who has told you ? " he asked,
taking her hands, and looking with swimming
eyes Into the girl's face.

Never mind ; I know. It was you who
brought me to Waringham ; It was you who

took me out of poverty ; it was you who gave
me to  him ! It was you, wasn't it ? "

'' Yes," replied James In a low voice ; '' it
was I, Deldee. You were hardly more than a
baby, and a very naughty baby too, when I
found you and fell in love with you and carried
you off, nineteen years ago. I thought you
were a fairy, and so did my uncle. There was
quite a fight between us and some other people
as to who should have you ; and you came of
your own accord to my uncle and me. He was
superstitious about you, and thought you would
bring luck to Waringham ; but it would Indeed
take a fairy to do that."

'' Did he think that, James ? " she asked ina
whisper, with fiery earnestness in her dark
eyes. " That I was a fairy  that I could bring
luck to people ? "

So you will, my child, to some man ; you
will bring all the luck and all the happiness
that a man can enjoy to  to Reginald Bamber,
perhaps ! " he ended bitterly.

No, James," said she earnestly, while a
deep flush rose Into her face ; '' not to Reginald
Bamber. I know what you mean ; but you are

wrong. Fairies don't marry, and I shall not
marry ; but I shall not go away to live in the
clouds ; I shall stay to live the life of a woman
here in the world, but with only one thought,
only one determination  to repay some day 
I don't know when, I don't know yet quite how
the debt of all I owe to you."

The earnestness and fire of the girl as she
made this strange declaration, with the dreamy
poetry of a child, and yet with the passionate
intensity of a woman, kept James for a few
moments silent, reading dimly in her eyes the
story of what the rash impulses of an ill-spent
youth had lost him.

'rit is too late, Deldee ! " he cried at last
hoarsely. " Nothing your warm, generous
heart could feel for me, nothing your sweet
little hands could do for me, can help me now."

You don't know," she answered resolutely,
her great eyes, shining with strange faith,
meeting his solemnly. " You can't guess what
I can do, because I have spent my life quietly,,
without anything serious to occupy me. You
think, because I am only a woman, that it is
quite funny to hear me talk of doing anything

more important than wool-work. But I have
energies and powers that no one knows of yet ;
and Heaven will increase them and strengthen
them tenfold if I use them in the right way, to
fulfil a vow I have made to-night."

She spoke like a prophetess ; but James
was naturally more moved by the warmth of
her tones than by the impulsive words themselves.


'' You shouldn't make vows, Deldee, especially
about ne'er-do-weels," said he very tenderly.
" I am not worth one throb of your
tender little heart."

"Ah, you talk to me as if I were a child ; but
you will know better some day ! And you
can't prevent my vow, because it is made," she
said, with naive solemnity. " And, however
much you may laugh at me and my simplicity
now, I shall keep it ; and some day, when you
are in trouble  and you have just the nature
that slips into trouble easily  I have found that
out already  and when you are at your wits*
end for a friend to help you, you will find the
fairy you laughed at by your side, James,
without the aid of any magic ring to call her."

'' Heaven forbid that I should laugh at
you ! " said James, who Indeed had tears in his
eyes. '' Why, my dear little fairy, you have
done more than you think for me already ! If
it hadn't been for you, I  I Nevermind."

He was holding her hands, wringing them
in his with a firm pressure, while he kept his
eyes away from her face.

And you won't do anything foolish or  or
wrong, that would hurt you, will you ? You
know it Avould be so unkind to me when I
should care so much ! " she added appealingly.

'' I can't promise never to do anything foolish
or wrong, Deldee my child, because in that case
I should have to change James Otway's identity
for somebody else's. But I promise to trust in
you as my good fairy, and to believe that this
soft hand, which looks, as you suggest, only fit
for doing wool-work, is really a hand of iron
strong enough to help those it befriends out of
any danger, any difficulty. It led me pretty
nearly where it liked in the old days ; so why
not now ? "

He spoke playfully ; but the girl took every
word in earnest in spite of him. She did not

resent his jesting tone, knowing very well that
her words had a deeper effect upon him than
he chose to show. How deep she scarcely
guessed even when they were suddenly interrupted
by the appearance of Johnson, who, on
being called back, as he was discreetly retreating,
announced that the phaeton was at the
door ; and James said briefly 

Send it back again. I shall stay here tonight."


Geraldine was not sure whether she was
glad or sorry  glad, because he was not going
to rush away from his home and his evident
duty to his uncle's memory and his aunts'
wishes ; or sorry, because he would, in his
dangerously despondent state, be still further
depressed by this gloomy house with its weird
occupants, dead and living. Besides, she did
not even know whether he was safe from
pursuit. Her lingers trembled In James's hand,
as he gave the order and led her slowly to the
drawing-room. The Vicar was much relieved
to see that the young man looked less melancholy,
but could not approve of the means by
which this change had been brought about, for

he took a genuine interest in the welfare of
pretty modest Geraldine Lindley and gave his
warmest approval to his son's suit. He hurried
her off very quickly ; but, while Johnson was
helping him on with his voluminous protective
apparatus against the night-air, James led the
young girl into the outer hall and stood beside
her, looking down upon her very eloquently,
but with nothing to say. Just as the Vicar's
rattling voice was heard thanking the butler
through his respirator, Geraldine whispered
timidly 

James, are you safe here ? "

And, looking down at her with a sudden
change of face, while a quiver ran through his
frame, he answered with passionate earnestness,
the meaning of which she did not rightly
interpret 

' No."

CHAPTER II.

Geraldine awoke next morning at the Vicarage,
oppressed, unhappy, anxious as she had never
been before. Reginald was called into the
study by his father as soon as breakfast was
over ; and Mrs. Bamber, who had household
duties to attend to, and who was not without
an intention of preparing a tete-astute between
her son and the pretty guest, sent Geraldine
into the garden.

At first the girl thought she was glad to be
alone ; at all times fond of solitude, she had
suddenly felt, while on her knees listening to
Reginald's sweet voice as he intoned family
prayers, that she must break away and escape
somewhere to indulge in a wild fit of crying ;
and at breakfast she had only been able to keep

her self-control by speaking as little as possible.
But, once out in the garden, free to hide herself
in the winding paths that were concealed from
view from the house by hedges of tall evergreens,
the longing to cry suddenly left her,
and gave place to a heavy melancholy that was
harder still to bear; and then her loneliness
began to distress her, and she paused at the
garden gate to look out over the field beyond,
and up to the left towards the church, behind
which one could just see the first trees of Waringham
Park. And she stood there as quietly
as a statue, and waited and listened. And very
soon she heard a man's footsteps, and she
started, and the colour deepened In her face.
Before she saw any one, however, she knew
that It was Reginald B amber sauntering up
from the house ; she looked to right and left
for a path down which to escape ; but, before
she had gone many steps very softly between
two yew hedges, his musical voice, which
irritated her this morning, said 

Have you lost your way In this labyrinth,
Miss Lindley ?"

No ; I was trying to find  wondering if

I could see a  a way out," said she foolishly,
without quite knowing what she felt ashamed of.

'' Let me help you."

He came to her side, and walked with her,
and gathered her some lilac, and said sympathizing
things, and was very kind.

But all the time she was ungratefully thinking
that the perfectly suitable and correct
condolences he made sounded stereotyped and
soulless, and the sweet voice in which he made
them irritated her spirit instead of soothing it.
When he spoke of James  kindly, but with the
implied unquestionable superiority to which his
own blameless character ofave him a risht  she
felt her teeth clenching, while a wild impulse
sprang up in her to throw the lilac he had given
her over the hedge and to answer him savagely,
and to do half a dozen other unladylike things
to express her sudden unreasonable anger. At
last, when he, never guessing what a tempest
he was raising, suggested that it was rash of
James to venture to come to the Hall, especially
at such a time, she burst out 

You would not have had him keep away
from the Hall at such a time, would you ? "

VOL. II. 22

Reginald looked down at her in surprise,
which made her blush.

I did not know that he came to see Sir
Charles because he Alas ill ; I thought his
arrival at such a time was quite accidental,"
said he gently. " His coming does more credit
to his affections than to his prudence."

Now Geraldine knew that it did credit
neither to the one nor the other ; so she kept
silence. Thinking the subject was distasteful
to her, he proceeded to change it by asking, asa
pet spaniel of his mother's came running
along the path towards them, whether she was
fond of dogs.

'eyes," she replied. *' I think I shall ask
James  Sir James  to let me have old Noel ;
I don't suppose the Misses Otway will want
him, and Sir James would give him up to me,
I know."

Noel was an old Newfoundland, which had
been a great favourite with Sir Charles. This
remark seemed to invite a return to the subject
of the new master of the Hall.

'' What is he going to do ? " asked Reginald,
in a puzzled tone. '' I don't yet understand his

coming at all. You see," he went on, lowering
his voice, '' although they managed to keep it
dark to a great extent, rumours have got about
the place concerning the reason of his long
absence ; and the least mystery about a man is
clue enough for the police  if they want him.
He has been very reserved, hasn't he ? My
father says he never alluded to  to the manner
of his coming at all, except indirectly, by seeming
anxious to be off. Has he said anything
about it to you ? "

No  o, nothing," she answered very
quietly, but in terrible anxiety which she did
her best to hide.

And he is so dreadfully rash  unless he
has really been released. William, the postman,
told me this morning that last night he
met two men who told him Mr. James Otway
had come back, and was none the better for his
stay in foreign parts. It seems that the night
before they saw him at an hotel in Ipswich
very much intoxicated. Can you imagine
anything more imprudent for a man in his
position ? "

Imprudent ! That was the man's view.

To the girl this revelation was full of unutterable
horror.

'' Sir James's refined habits and manners
don't interest me ! " said she coldly.

Of course not," quickly assented Reginald,
who would not have thought of Insulting this
girl, who to him was a pearl among women, by
supposing her capable of feeling any but the
most distant and disdainful Interest in such
a man as James Otway had evidently become.
'' But I am sure you must feel that It is a sad
thing to see a man's life wrecked, even If It Is
by his own fault ; and one must make allowance
for the utter disorganization which follows an
experience of that kind In any but the best-balanced
minds."

This speech brought tears to her eyes, not
tears of sympathy, but of vexation and anger,
against whom she hardly knew. She almost
thought that it was against Reginald, when the
sudden appearance of James Otway at the gate,
which they were now again approaching, made
her instantly aware that her anger and bitter
disgust were for him. He did not look pleased
on seeing her with Reginald ; but his face and

voice fell Into sweetness as he took her hand.
But she was cold as ice, cold as his aunts, this
morning.

*' I am quite well, thank you," she answered
stiffly to his affectionate inquiry.

Reginald was quite distressed by her unkindness
to a man who, whatever his faults and
crimes might be, was after all an old friend In
misfortune. He took the unwilling hand of the
prodigal, who had drawn back deeply hurt, Ina
warm and hearty grasp, and said 

So glad to see you back, old man ! Come
in ; my mother Is impatient to see you."

But James said 

*' Thanks, no  awfully busy  got a lot todo
! Only looked in just to  just to see you,
and tell you I'm off again. Good morning."

He raised his hat to Geraldine without
looking at her, and was gone before a sound
could pass her lips. Reginald ran after him,
and the girl was left standing very still, with
remorse and a deep yearning pity in her heart.
Reoflnald looked almost stern as he came more
slowly back again.

*' What is the matter with him ? " she asked
quite coolly.

'' Indeed I cannot tell, if you cannot, Miss
Lindley."

*' He has picked up very strange manners  
er  wherever he has been to."

Reginald looked at her in a very much
puzzled Way, and laughed a little.

*' Ladies are very difficult to understand.
Miss Lindley. They are supposed to be

tender-hearted, and yet Have you any

idea how cruel you are ? "

Cruel ! I only made a very natural
remark. Did you ever see such strange
behaviour ? But perhaps he is not sober."

Miss Lindley, have some mercy ! I  I 

you really " He stammered for a moment,

but then said, " Don't you really know why the
poor fellow went off so suddenly ? "

*' Indeed I cannot imagine any reason
strong enough to send a sane man rushing off
like a lunatic."

Shall I tell you what he said when I overtook
him ? "

"If it is anything worth hearing, which
I doubt."

*' I cannot tell you the exact words he used,

because allowance has to be made again  I am
afraid a good deal of allowance has to be made
for poor Otway. But it was something to this
effect  that he would rather be in  well, in
very unpleasant circumstances than  er  face
a lady who could be so unkind to him."

The words stabbed the girl ; but she only
shrugged her shoulders slightly, and said 

'' How absurd ! "

And Reginald, although he had no idea
how deep her feeling was, came . to the right
conclusion that she was sorry for her coldness ;
and he thought she did not like to own her
pity for so contemptible an object of it. She
expressed a wish, almost feverish in eagerness,
to return to Copsley, alleging how great Miss
Gretton's anxiety must be ; and, as he drove
her back, she talked so much and in such
a lively manner that he was rather shocked by
such a strange demeanour on the morrow of
a grief so deep as the death of her guardian.

He would have been reassured as to her
depth of feeling if he could have seen her, after
the briefest possible announcement to Miss
Gretton of the events of her absence, locked

in her own room, lying on the floor in a
convulsion of mad grief, which distorted her
features and shook her frame and roofed in her
whole being, until every faculty seemed shattered
; and she crept back again to fulfil her
duty of accompanying Miss Gretton in her
morning walk  now taken in the garden  with
dull, dizzy brain and tottering limbs and a great
void at her heart that nothing could fill.

Dull despair at her loneliness, and at the
impossibility of helping James or of saving him
from the misery and danger which seemed on
all sides to hem him in, had seized and paralyzed
her since her passionate outburst of grief an
hour ago ; and this state of apathy lasted all
through that day and to the afternoon of the
following, when it was destroyed by a most
unexpected event.

For, as the two ladies were sitting together
in the drawing-room, the elder dozing, the
young one neglecting the work in her hands to
stare in front of her with mournful, tearful eyes
which saw nothing, they were both suddenly
startled by the sound of wheels and hoofs, and
by the sight of the Otway barouche at the

door. With a thrill of joy which shattered her
dull apathy in a moment, Geraldine heard
James's voice ; and, a few seconds later, he,
with his aunt Elizabeth, entered the room, to
the overwhelming astonishment of its occupants.
For, although they knew each other by
sight, it was the first time in all these years
that the two elder ladies had met each other.
With the boldness of youth, James had persuaded
his aunt to take a step which his more
timid uncle had never dared to suggest. They
were profusely civil to one another, each showing
off her grand manners, each too making an
unexpectedly favourable impression upon the
other ; for Miss Otway and the 
Miss Gretton, though women of entirely
different dispositions, had intellects of equal
keenness. The two younger members of the
quartet were strangely shy with each other, and
did very little talking, devoting themselves to
watching the encounter between their elders.
Elizabeth explained, with a stately and cold
-expression of grief, that she had thrown aside
ceremony in coming at a time when they were
all suffering from a great sorrow, at the request

of her nephew, who had begged her to give
her poor aid in entreating Miss Gretton to
allow her ward to return to Waringham Hall
with them for a few hours to comfort her sister
Eleanor, who was in a state of depression which
caused them great alarm, and who had taken a
strong fancy to the young girl. So Geraldine,
with the dignified permission of her old instructress,
returned with Miss Otway and her
nephew to the Hall, rather silent, rather reserved,
but inexpressibly comforted to find that
James, who was as silent and reserved as she,
had done nothing rash in his despondency.

But, as soon as they arrived at the Hall,
James, instead of letting her go to comfort his
eldest aunt, which was the ostensible reason of
her coming, whispered, as he helped her out of
the carriage 

Will you come and see him ? "

She assented ; and he led her through the
dark halls, which made her shiver with dismal
recollections of two nights ago, up the staircase,
and into the solemn death-chamber where the
coffin lay. But the only sight in it that made
her shudder was the face of the housekeeper

watching there, whose thin, shrivelled features,
stamped with an undying terror since the night
of her master's death, impressed the girl with
unreasonable terror, and made her shrink back
on first entering the room.

'' Would you rather not see him ? " whispered
James, offering to lead her back.

She conquered herself, and approached the
coffin. But the first glance at the still waxen
face she so deeply loved lying in the flood
of bright afternoon sunlight which streamed
through the white blinds, calmed her and drew
from her eyes tears which were scarcely sorrowful
at all. She kissed the cold forehead with
reverent love ; and when she left the room,
after a long, long last look at the peaceful
face which impressed her, in spite of her reason,
with the feeling that he was only sleeping, and
that the touch of his child's lips could affect
him still, the ghastly horror of death which she
had felt since she last visited the room had
passed away.

*' Come into the garden," whispered James ;
and, without waiting for an answer, he led her
through the dining-room to the scantily filled

conservatory, and through that into the garden
outside. But he did not stop there. He could
see that she was in no mood for talking; so in
silence he led her through the paths on the
opposite side of the house to that of the
principal entrance, and through a low iron gate,
under the trees of the park, which extended
very little farther In this direction ; then through
another gate, and across a road into a meadow,
at the other side of which they found a rough
cart-track which they followed.

'' Where are you taking me ? " asked Geraldine
at last.

Over the road we travelled together nineteen
and a half years ago, Deldee."

She started, and he stopped.

*' I thought, you know, Deldee, that, since
you have heard so much, it is better you
should learn everything about yourself that it is
possible to find out, and that we had better
begin by questioning the Corbyns, in whose
farmyard I first found you. But, if you don't
feel strong enough for the ordeal of investigation,
we'll go back, dear."

'' No, no ; you are quite right. Let us goon,"
said she firmly.

So they went on in the April afternoon
sunshine across the meadow, skirted the pine-wood
where James used to play truant in company
with Tip the terrier, and saw through the
slender tree-trunks the blue haze rising from
the lower ground beyond ; and then they came
to the farmyard, and to the old shed with the
chickens and the ducks flocking about it just as
they used to do ; and there in the corner stood
a red waggon which might have been the very
one under whose shafts James had found Deldee.
He looked in and began to laugh.

'' I suppose you don't remember this place,
Deldee ? " said he curiously.

No."

*well, I do. It was just in this corner
that I found you sitting on the ground on a

sack, and Hallo, Mrs. Corby n, don't you

recognize two old friends ? " he cried out,
shaking: hands with her.

I remember you, of course, sir, and I'm
very glad to see you back ; but "

But you don't remember the lady I carried
off from you one October evening ? "

Mrs. Corby n started, and curtseyed as

Geraldlne shook hands with her. She had
exchanged the comeliness of her youth for that
of mature age ; but the expression of her face
was as kind and good-humoured as ever. But
through all the admiration for her transformed
favourite which her shy glances betrayed, James
saw that something was puzzling or distressing
the farmer's wife ; and, while Geraldine was
engaged in caressing an ugly mongrel which
came jumping about her, having taken a fancy
to her, Mrs. Corbyn drew him a little on one
side and said 

'rit is the strangest thing in the world that
you should bring the young lady here to-day,
sir. Yesterday a gentleman came making
inquiries about her, and saying he was her
father."

Geraldine caught these words, and came
quickly up, just as James was trying to silence
the farmer's wife.

'* No ; go on please," she said quietly.

And Mrs. Corbyn, glancing from the one to
the other, obeyed.

He  he described the  the lady who
brought you here, exactly, miss, so that I could

see her again as he spoke, and he said she was
his wife, whom he had been forced through
difficulties to leave for a time ; and he said 
he said he was a cousin of poor Sir Charles's,
sir, and his wife knew that, and so brought the
child, when she herself got badly off ; and, not
daring to take it up to the Hall herself, she left
it here with a letter, which, you, miss, being
very little and not understanding the importance
of it  which you went and swallowed,
miss."

The girl looked incredulous ; but James
confirmed the statement by a grave nod. Questioned
further, the description Mrs. Corbyn
gave of the gentleman left no possibility of
doubt that it was Lindley Fielding, as both the
young man and the girl had at once feared.
This story alarmed them both. There was a
troubled pause in the conversation when they
had learnt all they could, which was broken by
the arrival of the farmer himself, on whom the
sight of his wife's visitors made a deeper impression
than it had made upon her. He
guessed sooner than his wife had done who
the lady was ; but, after examining her well, he

said, in a tone which frankly intimated his
opinion that she had not lived up to her early
promise

Ah, miss, you were a pretty little mite, if
ever there was one ! I would have given my
head to have brought you up as my own."

You were not so amiable about it then, if
I remember rightly," suggested James.

'' Never you mind, Sir James ! It sounds a
liberty to say it, now you've grown into a fine
lady," continued he, with an undercurrent of
pity for her degradation ; " but I never took to
a child, before or since, not even to my own, as
I did to you, miss."

His wife tried to check the exuberance of
his reminiscences, thinking they might not be
agreeable to the lady's ears. But Geraldine
liked the farmers blunt straightforwardness,
and encouraged him by thanking him for his
good intentions towards her.

Well, I would have brought you up to the
best of my means, and you should have wanted
for nothing  in reason," he added prudently.
*' I dare say you think you have done better
than that," he admitted. '' But there is no

knowing  you have your life before you yet,
and there's ups and there's downs. And if you
ever should want the help of a plain man that's
not a gentleman, but that has a few pounds at
his back and a good roof over his head, you're
welcome to come to me, madam, not for the
sake of the fine lady you've grown into, but for
the sake of the little creature that, by-the-by,
I remember didn't take to me much nineteen
years ago."

'' Thank you," said Geraldine, touched by
the genuine ring of the only half-gracious words.
Perhaps I appreciate you better now than I
did then, to balance your evident preference for
the baby over the ' fine lady.' "

Mr. Corbyn laughed constrainedly, and left
his wife with her, in order to speak to the
young gentleman, whom he led straight into
the farmyard, well out of hearing of the women,
before he unburdened his mind.

'' Fm the last person to wish to interfere in
anybody else's affairs, sir," he began ominously
But, at the same time, as a tenant for years
of your late uncle. Sir Charles, and now of
yours, sir, I am bound to feel an interest in the

VOL. II. 23

family  that you will understand, sir ; and
stories have got about these last three days
somehow  I don't wish to give offence ; but I
have something to tell you which may be of
service to you. This sudden illness and death
of Sir Charles and your sudden arrival, and
Mr. Fielding ofoins on have set folks
talking."

And what do they say ? "

Oh, goodness knows, sir ; a lot of cock-and-bull
stories for the most part, and I only
mention them because, if it hadn't been for all
this commotion, I shouldn't have thought much
of what I saw ! "

'' And that was "

'A man looking about the Hall, sir, yesterday
and to-day, after no good, I'll swear."

My industrious relative, Mr. Lindley Fielding,
I expect, on vulture's business."

No, sir, not Mr. Fielding."

- Who then ? "

'' I don't know, Sir James. A man I never
saw before."

James looked uneasy, though he tried to
laugh the matter off

'' Thanks, Corbyn ; I'll have the strong
room watched."

But the farmer guessed, as the gentleman
knew, that the man on the watch by Waringham
Hall had not come after the plate.

CHAPTER III.

Geraldine and James returned towards the
Hall, anxious and unhappy  at first each tried
to hide from the other this fact ; but the attempt
was a failure, and at last she said in a low
voice 

'' Oh, I hope it is not true ! I have met the
man, and I don't like him."

James stopped.

It is not true. Be sure, whatever happens,
not to let any one persuade you that it
is. That man, under another name, has been
my ruin ; for some reason or other, he is now
working to effect yours. If you have any trust
in me, any care for your own happiness, don't
have anything to do with him. Believe me,
child, I speak from experience so bitter that, if
I were to live for a hundred years, I could not

outlive the effects 'of it  he has wrecked me
body and soul."

'' What has he done ? " she asked timidly.

It is not a story for your ears, child ; it
would shock you, disgust you ; and all I want
is to warn you against falling into his hands.
He is a plausible scoundrel, and can cheat himself
as well as the rest of the world. His love
of pleasure and of his own ease he mistakes
for philanthropy, and he is constantly complaining,
in all good faith, of the unkind feelings
cherished against him by the victims of his
own rogueries. Promise, for my sake, that you
will have nothing to do with him."

'' I can promise you that I don't want to do
so," she answered simply.

She had no fear of what this monster of
iniquity, as James described him to be, might
do to her ; she instinctively knew that life had
no dangers for her compared with those it had
for her stalwart companion. The disgust she
had felt at Reginald's revelations of the manner
in which James had spent the evening before
his return home had struggled vainly against
the affection for him which had never died out

since her childhood, and the gratitude which
had sprung up in her heart on learning that it
was to his childish fancy for her that she owed
her guardian's care and love through all these
years. This fact gave the young man a right
to reverence in her eyes, and she was now far
more ready to accuse herself for her ungrateful
coldness the day before than him for his vices
or his crime ; and she ingenuously thought it
was very good of him to bear no malice for that
snub of the morning previous. So she walked
along by his side, enjoying a subdued and timid
happiness in his society, until they reached the
park ; and James, not wishing yet to exchange
that pleasant tHe-ct-tete for the more restrained
intercourse of indoors, asked her if she would
like to come round the garden. She assented
willingly, yet with hesitation ; evening was
closing in, and she had dragons to fear both
at Waringham Hall and Copsley. James led
her round to the front entrance, and to the
gate opposite, through which she had run to
escape him on his first appearance. They now
went through together, and sauntered along the
box-bordered path between two broad beds full

of bush-roses breaking into leaf, and lilac in
full blossom ; while guelder-roses, syringa, and
laburnum gave faint promise of later beauty,
and the petals of the already-fading almond-blossom
strewed the ground at their feet.
Geraldine was delighted with the charm of this
nook, and pained by the thought that she had
never been there with her guardian. James
saw the shadow cross her face, and to divert
her thoughts he said

"It is not quite so pretty as the Vicarage
garden, is it ? And we have no lilac half so
fine as that I saw in your hands yesterday."

'' It was very lovely ; Mr. Reginald Bamber
gave it to me," she answered, not without a
spontaneous impulse of mischief.

'' Ah, I suppose you wouldn't look at a
flower of my gathering after that ! " said he,
with, however, no very wild display of jealousy.

'' Oh, I might look at it, for the sake of the
flower ! I like flowers," said she demurely.

And she accepted a handful of little scentless
white Scotch roses, with carelessness which gave
no intimation of the care with which they were
to be treasured up.

** You are very hard, aren't you?" whispered
James, as he rearranged them in her hands and
tried to look into her eyes.

What do you mean by ' hard ' ? " she
asked in a low voice, after a pause of a few
moments.

*why, weren't you very unkind to me
yesterday morning ? "

Her breath came quickly, but at first she
did not answer ; then she said almost in a
whisper 

Please forgive me. They had been telling
me shameful stories about you."

*' * They ' means Reginald Bamber, 1 suppose
? " said he angrily. " And what stories
did he tell you ? "

'* Oh, no, no, don't be angry ; he only said 
he said you were  I don't like to say it  I
assure you I don't believe a word of it, James 
Sir James ; but he said "

'well, what did he say. Miss Lindley ?"

No, don't call me that. He said, James,
that you were  intoxicated at Ipswich the other
night."

Oh, is that all ? " slipped out involuntarily.

Geraldine looked up at him in speechless
horror. He could not help laughing.

It is all right, Geraldine  at least, I mean
it was very wrong. But if you knew how
wretched I was, you wouldn't be so hard on
me."

She had shrunk into herself in disgust.
His crime of six years ago seemed nothing by
comparison with this recent breach of propriety.
She turned to go back to the house ;
but he gently detained her.

Are you going to leave me again to be
lonely and wretched so soon ? "

'you can find better ways of consoling
yourself than any I can invent," she began
coldly.

But as he turned abruptly away, with an air
suggestive of an intention to take her at her
word, she sprang after him and put her hand
on his arm remorsefully, pleadingly, her eyes
full of tears.

Oh, don't be angry ; I am so sorry ! Of
course I have no right to interfere with you.
And men look upon these things differently,
I dare say. Forgive me, please ; remember

how quietly and strictly I have been brought
up ; if I knew more about the world, I daresay
I should not be shocked at all."

James looked in her face for a long time ;
then he said, in a rather unsteady voice 

'' No ; that is true ; however, if it is any
comfort to you to know it, I shan't try to console
myself that way again  at least, to the
extent I have done sometimes," he added
prudently.

She pressed his hand silently and gratefully,
as if he had rendered her some service too
ofreat to be acknowledged in words. He was
touched, though he did not want to show It.

You are tired ; shall we go in ? " he asked.
Just come into the grass walk first ; there is
something very pretty I have to show you
there."

He was right. Leaving the rose-corner by
another gate at the end of the path, they passed
under the low-bending ragged branches of a
great cedar, and into a broad grass-path, bordered
by very high, thick hedges of laurels and
other evergreens. About fifty yards from the
beginning of this walk, the bordering shrubs

and trees grew thinner on the left-hand side,
and, forcing a passage through them, James led
Geraldine to a large pond, which they came
upon so suddenly that, as she found herself at
the edge of it, she gave a start and uttered a
faint cry of something more than surprise.
For the evening mist which already hung over
the black water, the beeches and slender white-stemmed
larches which grew closely round it
on all sides to its very brink, gave it in the dusk
a look of mystery which impressed her imagination.
A smooth carpet of green duckweed
stretched over more than half of it, and at one
end an old water-logged boat, black in the dim
light, was moored by a slimy and rotten rope
to a stump, which rose slanting out of the sleek
green surface of the water.

Pretty ! " she remarked, with a shiver.
I don't like it  at least, not now."

The romantic desolation of the spot, which
would have charmed her at another time, seemed
at this moment to revive all the sensations of
gloom and horror which she had experienced
in the last few days ; and James found it necessary
to throw his arm round her, lest, in her

nervous agitation, she should sHp into the
pond.

Oh, I'm not going to faint ! " said she
simply. '' I never do."

But, as it is better to be on the safe side of
a danger, he very kindly supported her until
they were under the cedar tree again. It was
very dark there ; and, as she disengaged herself
from his arm, not at all harshly, she could
scarcely see his face, or he hers. But, at that
very moment, he felt her tremble.

What is it, Deldee dearest ? You see you
are not so strong-minded as you pretend."

She laughed, and said she supposed she was
not ; and she took his arm of her own accord,
and talked fast and almost incoherently until
they reached the house. As he rang the bell,
she put her hand earnestly upon his shoulder.

'' James," she said  and her eyes were wide
and her voice was shaking  "don't laugh at
me, but believe me ! You are not safe here  I
am sure of it ! "

Before he could ask her what she meant,
the door was opened, and they were scarcely in
the Hall before Elizabeth met them.

'james," said she, ''Mr. Bamber is here.
He wishes particularly to see you."

"All right," he responded; "I will come
and see him in a minute. Geraldine, come
here ; I want to show you the library."

His aunt, still adhering to her plan of
opening the campaign by the most perfect
feminine submission to him, retreated, and
Geraldine let him lead her into the library,
where, with a perceptible start, she recognized
the tiger-skin rug which had struck her childish
fancy and remained in her memory ever since
her first introduction to Waringham Hall.

Deldee," began James, recalling her to the
present in a low voice  his right hand was
playing idly with the papers on the table, and
his eyes were on them, not on her  " I have
something to say to you. I had meant to leave
it for a little while, until after  after the funeral,
you know. But now I can see there is going
to be a disturbance, and an all-round fire of
unpleasant questions, and a skeleton-hunt, and
Heaven knows what besides. So I had better
speak to you first. I want you to let me take
my uncle's place to you, Deldee. Of course

you can't look up to me and respect me as you
did him ; but that doesn't matter ; we can get
on very well without that. Whatever I have
done, and however I have behaved to other
people, you will always be able to depend upon
me just as If I were  as If I were your father,
in fact. No, don't laugh!" said he earnestly,
as she uttered a little hysterical sound, In
which there was not much merriment. "A
man may be a very good father, you know,
even when he has been by no means without
reproach in  in other respects ; so I don't see
why you shouldn't be  be my daughter. Yes,
I know It sounds funny ; but I must be something
to you, Deldee," he went on, his voice
growing fuller, more tender ; " and  and if 
if everything had been altogether different, why
then  why then, of course, it wouldn't have
been the same, and we might have come to 
why, come to other arrangements perhaps.
But, as It is, I have thought it over, and this
seems the only feasible plan. Of course you
won't call me ' papa ' "  and they both began
incoherently laughing, with tears in their eyes
" because  because, of course, it wouldn't do.

But you will come and live here with my aunts,
and  and you won't find me much in the way
I shall generally be out. And you can be
married from here, when I have found you a
nice trustworthy husband. But we can take
our time about that."

He stopped at last, and found, on looking
at her, that Geraldine was staring at him blankly,
with moist eyes. His suggested arrangement
took her breath away.

'' You are not serious ? "
Yes, I am. Why not ? Look here  it is
of no use for you to say you are not coming,
for you are to come  do you hear ? There can
be nothing against it ; my aunts want companionship."


'* Not mine," interrupted Geraldine, shaking
her head decidedly.

'' Yes, they do," said he obstinately. '' They
are dull, lonely. And I am dull and lonely ;
I want you," he declared with a burst of yearning
affection in his voice. " I  oh, Deldee,
don't say you won't come ! "

She shook from head to foot as he put his
hands upon hers, and looked down into her face

with pleading eyes her own dared not meet.
She warded off his nearer approach to her, and
said, speaking very fast 

*' I tell you, Sir James  James it is impossible.
Hear what the rest say ; I know
they will say it is impossible. And don't, don't,
don't turn away like that, as if you were angry
with me. You must know I don't want to be
unkind."

Then you promise to come, if they all
agree to it ? " said he, turning eagerly and
abruptly.

'' Oh, I don't know ! They won't agree,
I'm sure. They will say you are mad."

Very well. Come and see."

He drew her hand through his arm, and led
her off to the drawing-room, walking very
quickly and without speaking. The lamp had
been brought in, and round it the two elderly
ladies and the Vicar were sitting. James, who
seemed restless and excited, pulled the bell
very sharply when the greetings were over,
and gave the unaccustomed order 

'' Another lamp, and some candles  lots of
candles ! " Then he turned to his aunts. " I

can't bear this gloom ; it oppresses me. You
don't mind a little more light, do you ? "

Eleanor looked horror-struck. More candles
! And at such a time as this ! It was
an outrage on decency as well as a criminal
extravagance. Elizabeth assented to the order
rather stiffly. Both the guests felt relieved,
however, when Johnson came in with another
lamp, followed by a maid bearing candles.

That is better ! " exclaimed James ; and
then he violated precedent again by bringing
up an unused ottoman from the other end of
the room, placing Geraldine on it, and throwing
himself down upon it beside her.

It was a bad beginning, denoting contempt
for the sacred rights of custom, easy familiarity
with the opposite sex, and unhealthy discontent
with existing arrangements. But it was but
the prelude to something far worse ; for, as
soon as he was seated, he began, with his
eyes still on Geraldine, who tried in vain to
prevent his speaking 

My dear aunts, I have a proposal to make
to you, and I take the opportunity of making
it in Mr. Bamber's presence, because I feel

VOL. II. 24

sure that he will support me. You all know
that Geraldlne, the little sister I found so
romantically and brought here nineteen years
ago, was my uncle's adopted daughter." There
was a movement on the part of both the elder
ladies ; but neither of them spoke. " You all
know how fond he was of her, and "  here
he lowered his voice  " that she was his last
thought on his death-bed."

James ! " interrupted his younger aunt, ina
stifled voice.

He put up his hand authoritatively.

Let me go on, aunt, and we will come to
the discussion presently. You know perhaps
you certainly do, Aunt Elizabeth  that I
have looked already for my uncle's will, and
can find none but one he made twenty years
ago. We all have reason to think that he
made another just before he died ; but, as he
was at that time under the influence of designing
persons, who disappeared as soon as I
surprised them by turning up, we are not
likely to hear of that one again. Now it was
certainly not his intention to leave the person
he loved best in all the world unprovided for."

Geraldine tried to interrupt him ; but he kept
her silent. '' And it seems to me that the
best way in which we can carry out his wishes
with regard to her is by adopting her in our
turn and bringing her here to Hve with us,
whether," he added, as she shook her head
decidedly, " she likes it or not."

There was a minute's complete silence. A
thunderbolt had fallen upon them all, not in his
proposal, but in the suggestion which accompanied
it  " to live with us." Then he proposed
to remain here among them. Was he
then free to do so ? It was an awkward
moment for them all. The Vicar came to the
rescue.

Your plan is not a new one, James," he observed,
" though perhaps I am the only person
here who has heard of it before. On the very
day before his illness, Sir Charles told me that
it was his intention to bring Miss Geraldine
to the Hall, having learnt, I fancy, that Miss
Gretton, her protectress for so many years, is
anxious to leave Copsley and enter what the
High Church people call a retreat."

James's eyes were sparkling with triumph ;

and he took both the girl's hands affectionately
in his.

You hear that, Deldee ; you hear that,
Aunt Elizabeth ! My uncle wished it, and his
wishes are sacred to us all now''

Elizabeth was trembling with anger, and
for a moment dared not trust herself to speak.
For this artful James had cleverly planned his
attack so that the presence of the Vicar should
shield his favourite, this odious interloper, who
had wormed herself into his affection as she
had done into his uncle's, from the effects of
her just indignation. After only a few instants'
pause, Mr. Bamber spoke again.

'' But, my dear James," he began, with
diffidence which his rattling voice was unable
to express, " you must excuse me for broaching
this extremely delicate subject ; but, as it has
to be done sooner or later, it may as well begot
over at once. I would suggest that there
are certain difficulties, of which you must yourself
be fully aware, in the way of your making
any arrangements for settling the family affairs.
As an old friend, whom you have all known
for any number of years, your aunts appealed

to me to ask you to take them a little more
into your confidence than you have hitherto
done, before you have the inevitable interviews
with the executor, who is  so Elizabeth tells
me  Admiral Stanhope."

Confidence ! " echoed James, his face suddenly
lowering. " What about ? "

There was another most awkward silence,
during which nobody could keep quite still.

Well, then, not to beat about the bush any
longer, how did you  did you manage to get
here, in fact ? In the pleasure we all felt at
seeing you among us again, we  we  none of
us  could rush into details directly, nor could
you, of course ! But you can see yourself,
my dear boy, that it makes all the difference
in the world  that it is a point which your
relatives have a right to have settled, in fact."

What on earth do you mean ? " inquired
James, in a low voice. **' I don't understand
you."

Well, then, if you force me to speak out,
how did you get out of prison ? "

** Prison ! " echoed James, quietly.

Yes, Dartmoor, I believe it was. Were

you let out, or  or have you  well  er 
escaped ? "

James looked at him steadily, as he crossed
and recrossed his legs and tapped the table by
which he was sitting, and shifted his coat-collar
as he was in the habit of doing his gown.

I have never been in prison," he replied
very calmly.

There was Instantly a great commotion in
the room, though nobody spoke except poor
Eleanor, who began to pray aloud in a quavering
voice for forgiveness for his perjured soul.

'' My dear James," said the Vicar very
gravely, " think again."

'' If I think till I'm blue in the face, I
can't find a suitable reply to such nonsense ! "
retorted the young man angrily. '' I  I can't
think what has come over you all. I beg your
pardon, Mr. Bamber ; but really such questions
would try any one's temper. Deldee," he
added, turning to her with sudden excitement,
did you ever hear this story before ? "

She turned a white face towards him,
whispering in an agony of trembling hope 

Oh, James, isn't it true, then . "

'' True ? No, of course It is not true !
Where on earth did you all get hold of it ?
So this is the meaning of Good Heaven ! "

He started up from the ottoman and leant
against the mantelpiece, with his head in his
hands. They all looked at him mutely, not
knowing what to make of his behaviour  all
but Elizabeth, who got up and left the room as
the butler appeared at the door.

Then, if this is not true, how do you
account for your long absence without ever
sending your friends any intimation of your
whereabouts ? " asked the Vicar.

*' When I left Waringham, it was with the
intention of severing all connection with a place
which I had hated since my boyhood, and a
family who had hated me, and who were bent
upon forcing me into a profession which I "  he
remembered his interlocutor, and changed his
sentence  "for which I was unfitted."

"And you have been "

Everywhere. To  to  to the Cape for
the greater part of the time."

But that fatal hesitation made the Vicar
look graver still.

'' And you mean to say that you deny 
absolutely deny that you were ever in prison ? "

Most emphatically I deny It ! "

'' I am afraid you will find that difficult to
prove, as two persons whom we know well, to
begin with, saw you In prison."

'' And who are those two persons ? "

Sir Charles's Dublin solicitor, Mr. Massey,
a man whose evidence Is unimpeachable, and
Mr. Lindley Fielding."

Lindley Fielding ! " almost shouted James,
contemptuously. " Is that the evidence you
have to go upon ? "

'' It is not all of It, James," broke in Elizabeth,
coldly. She had come Into the room while they
were talking, holding In her hand some newspaper
cuttings and a letter. A sort of detestable
exultation over this man who had wished to
thrust Gerald fine upon them made her blue eyes
glitter brightly. She glanced over the papers
in her hands, and, deliberately selecting one
printed extract, give It to him to read.

He took it and held It close to one of the
candles on the mantelpiece. He was breathing
heavily, and he had to pass his hand across his

eves before he could read. It was an account
of the trial, a short one  being only an Irish
murder, the newspapers had not given it much
space  but clear, giving all the names. Geraldine
crouched on the ottoman, unable to look at
him. He laughed a hoarse laugh that grated
on the ear, and said, in a choking voice 

It  it is a mistake ; it is too absurd.
Inquire  inquire at Dartmoor, or  or wherever
it is, and you will find that your  your felon
James Otway is safely caged."

" Unfortunately no, James," responded
Elizabeth, very quietly. '* I sent Martha to Gold-borough
this afternoon, to the Post-Office, to see
if a letter I expected from Mr. Massey, in answer
to one of mine, had arrived. She has just
brought it. I will read to you the paragraph
which concerns you." She unfolded the letter
and read 

It is quite true that James Otway made
his escape from Dartmoor five weeks ago. I
only heard of it two days since, or I should have
written to you. He is supposed by the police
to have left for Australia ; and, as he has kept
out of their hands so honos, I should think, with

proper precautions, he ought now to be
safe."

Would you Hke to read It yourself ? " She
was handing the letter to her nephew, when,
with a gasp and a gurgling sound in his throat,
he staggered forward and fell in a fit.

The Vicar led Geraldlne quickly from the
room, and insisted, in spite of her prayers, upon
leading her off at once to the Vicarage. She sat,
like one stunned, almost unable to answer Mr.
Bamber's gentle and kind speeches, until the little
Norfolk cart was ready, and Reginald helped
her into it to drive her back to Copsley.

Just as they were starting, and her straining
eyes were striving to pierce the evening mist
that hung about the trees of Warlngham Park,
she whispered huskily 

Oh, stop, stop, one moment, I implore
you!

Reginald reined in the pony, and in another
moment the figure she had dimly seen came up to
them. It was James, panting, haggard, ghastly.

Deldee, Deldee, for Heaven s sake, say
you don't believe it ! "

'' Oh, James, no, I don't I don't ! "

The poor fellow seized her hand and clung
to It in a paroxysm of gratitude.

Thank you, thank you ! God bless you ! "
he cried hoarsely. " Come again. Let me see
you again."

I will come tomorrow," she whispered
tenderly close to his ear.

He seemed only half to understand the
words ; but the tone of her voice comforted
him ; and, as Reginald touched the pony lightly
with the whip, to put an end to this distressing
Interview, James pressed her hand to his hot,
dry lips, with a look which wrung her very soul,
and staggered back without another word, as
she was driven away from his sight quickly in
the dusk. A spasm of terror seized Geraldine,
as she turned to her companion.

'what will he do? What will he do?"
she cried wildly.

Oh, he will be all right tomorrow ! The
whole business has been clumsily managed, and
I don't wonder It upset him," replied Reginald,
soothingly.

But a leaden fear fell on the girl's heart that
she would never see James Otway again.

CHAPTER IV.

Reginald Bamber was a man whose even
temperament placed him above the reach of
petty stings of jealousy, and, moreover, it was
quite out of the question that he should for a
moment entertain such a feeling as envy for
an escaped convict who Inaugurated his freedom
by drunkenness, and who had then the audacity
to deny that he had ever been in prison at all.
But, from what he could see of Geraldine's
face, as he drove her quickly in the dusk of
the closing evening from Warlngham towards
Copsley, the girl was evidently so entirely
absorbed in anxiety for that most unworthy
object of it that a natural uneasiness arose In
his mind ; and he said, In his soft voice 

You are far too good-natured, Miss
Lindley. I don't know any man who Is worthy

of all the kind compassion you are bestowing
upon one who certainly does not deserve a
tithe of it."

*' That is not a very Christian sentiment,"
she answered, her voice trembling. "And
yesterday you accused me of being too severe."

Yesterday I had reason to hope that you
were," he expostulated gently. '' Yesterday
Otway had not put himself outside the pale
of sympathy by what I can really call by no
other term than a deliberate and audacious
falsehood."

'' How do you know it is not true '. " she
asked hotly.

He saw by this wild question that she was
not in a fit state of mind to be talked to as a
reasoning being, so he answered indulgently 

Of course, of course  how can we know ?
We must wait and see."

But she, detecting mild compassion for her
imbecility in his tone, said, with a strong effort
to be calm and collected 

'* Mr. Bamber, what would you say if I
were to tell you that, in spite of appearances,
I believe Sir James's word."

This was too much for a man's patience.
Reginald answered quietly, " I should be obliged
to say, Miss Lindley, that it was a very remarkable
instance of the amiable weakness which
puts a woman's judgment, however naturally
keen, at the mercy of her affections."

'rit is no question of the affections," she
said quietly, but in a tumult of inward rage at
being accused of an " amiable weakness." *' It
is a matter of weighing the evidence for and
against the truth of a statement."

But, unfortunately, all the evidence is on
one side," urged Reginald, still with perfect
sweetness, though he began to feel mild annoyance
at her obstinacy. "It all goes to show
that there cannot possibly be a particle of truth
in Otway's denial of his having been in prison."

'' A James Otway was put in prison, we
know, but not necessarily this James Otway."

'' That was settled at the time. He was
actually seen in prison by a man in whom Sir
Charles had the greatest confidence, a man of
unimpeachable character  Mr. Massey, his
solicitor in Dublin."

'* But there was another person who visited

the prison, whose evidence, you will admit, is
not so unimpeachable  Mr. Fielding."

Of course his visit counts for nothing."

'' I don't think it does. Mr. Fielding is
Sir James's greatest enemy ; he himself says
so, and he is very clever and cunning, as everyone
says."

'' But he is not clever enough to impose
upon a man so well acquainted with his
character as Mr. Massey is. Besides, Mr.
Massey had nothing to do with him ; he went
himself to the prison and saw Otway."

'' But did Mr. Massey know James by
sight } '

Yes. Sir Charles sent his nephew over
to Dublin on purpose to see this lawyer about
some business of his ; James duly called at the
office, and it was then that he disappeared ;
nothing more was heard of him until his name
appeared In the papers as that of one of six
men charged with the murder of the farmer
Hughes." Geraldine shuddered. 'that was
within fifteen months of his disappearance ;
therefore there could be no difficulty about
recognizing him."

'' I believe Mr. Fielding had something todo
with it," persisted Geraldine impulsively.

' Something to do with it ' is rather a
vague charge. He cannot, however, have had
anything to do with putting Otway into prison,
because I happen to know that he was in
London when the account of the murder
appeared in the papers, and that he had been
in town for some time. It was just before I
first went out to America, and I was staying
with an uncle of mine in Cromwell Road making
preparations for my journey, and I used
frequently to meet Mr. Fielding, who was, as
usual, in difficulties, and trying to induce his
relatives to help him to start some financial
speculation or other."

Geraldine listened very attentively. Reginald
Bamber was an excellent authority for
facts, and especially for facts concerning the
Otway family, for Sir Charles had been in the
habit of confiding in the Vicar, who, in all
matters of difficulty, relied much upon the
judgment of his steady, serious son.

Then it could not have been Mr. Fielding
who got some man to take the name of James

Otway, and then got him Into prison ? " suggested
Geraldine foolishly.

But Reginald did not lauQh. Her remark
was plaintive in its lack of reason. He
explained gently 

** That would have done no good to him
or harm to anybody else, while the real James
Otway was alive and free to come forward
and prove his identity whenever he chose. As
it happens, it was I who pointed out the paragraph
about the Irish murder to Mr. Fielding.
I was going up to the Temple station by the
Underground Railway, and he got into the
same carriage. When I first saw the name,
it did not occur to me for the moment that it
could be Sir Charles's nephew, and I showed
the paper to Mr. Fielding. He was astonished,
unmistakably astonished, and, after looking
at the announcement for a few moments, he
said, with some show of triumph 

' Then Fm not the only scamp in the
family ; Fve kept out of the papers, at any rate!'

And he said at the time that he should
go and see him if he could, out of curiosity as
much as compassion."
VOL. II. 25

"Then why does James say that Mr.
Fielding is his greatest enemy ? " asked
Geraldine, much puzzled.

Does he say that ? I am afraid poor
Otway is in the mood to think all mankind his
enemies. I think that nervous depressed state
he is in is the surest possible sign that he has
been recently in some great trouble, the effects
of which are upon him still."

'' Yes ; but we don't know what that trouble
is. To-morrow I will ask him to tell me."

To-morrow ! " echoed Reginald, in a
marked tone.

'' Yes, yes ! Did you not hear him ask me
to come to Waringham tomorrow ? "

Yes."

And would he have asked me to come and
see him if he did not intend to be there ? "

Certainly not ! The question is whether
he will be able to carry out his intention of
remaining."

'' Why not ? "

"If your supposition is correct, and he has
really nothing to fear from the police, then, of
course, there is no reason against it. But if

my view of his position is the right one, then
there is the strongest possible reason why he
should make his stay as short as he can."

Then if he is still at the Hall tomorrow,
you will believe that he is innocent ? " said
she in triumph.

I won't pledge myself to that ; but, of
course, the longer he stays the stronger is the
argument  the sole argument  that he has
nothing to fear in staying. But, if you value
his liberty, I warn you earnestly not to put him
to the test of inducing him to dare the police.
A man might easily be rash for the sake of
standing well in your eyes ; but I know you
would not like poor Otway to pay such a
penalty as he would have to pay if he were
caught*'

I believe that he has no reason to fear
being caught," she persisted staunchly, *' and
I will do my best to induce him to prove it
tomorrow."

In spite of all her loyalty, her voice

trembled a little on that last word, for she

remembered the fancy she had had, while

p standing with James under the cedar trees

that afternoon, that she could see the figure
of a man lurking in the black shadow cast by
the branches upon the high wall which shut
out the stable-yard from the garden. If the
police were indeed already watching the house !
Suddenly her faith gave way to deepest anxiety,
and she turned imploringly to her companion.

"Oh, Mr. Bamber," she whispered, "if he
really has done it, he is brave  too brave !
I warned him this afternoon ; but he took no
notice of what I said. Perhaps at this moment
they have caught him, for I saw a man  at
least I think I did  crouching hidden near the
Hall to-day. Oh, what shall I do  what can
I do ? "

You can do nothing now," he answered
gently, pitying her distress. " But, as soon as
I get back, I will go straight to the Hall, and
see if anything is going on there, and, if I get
a chance of speaking to Otway, I will do so."

She thanked him warmly, and was almost
silent, wrapped in her fears, for the remainder
of the drive ; but she gave him an eloquent
look as she bade him good-bye, to remind
him of his promise.

To do him justice, the reminder was needless.
He drove back as quickly as he could
to Warlngham, gave the cart into the charge
of the Vicarage coachman, who was a valuable
retainer, not too haughty to make himself
useful in the house and garden, and walked upto
the Hall. It occurred to him to inquire at
the lodge if any one had been through that
evening.

'' No, sir, barren' two undertaker's men,
sir, and Mr. Fielding  leastways, think it
was him, sir ; but he passed rather quick."

Reginald went straight up to the house,
and asked if he could see Sir James.

'' Sir James has gone to bed, sir."

It was only nine o'clock ; but having heard
from his father the Vicar that James had had
a fit of some kind that afternoon on being
shown the letter from Mr. Massey which
made his own denial of his crime useless,
Reginald was not surprised that the young
man had retired early. However, he remarked,
as if rather surprised 

"He keeps very early hours then ? "
 '' It is exceptional, sir. Sir James has not

been very Avell to-day," answered Johnson
discreetly.

'' Has the doctor been to see him ? Wasn't
it the doctor who came a short time ago ? "

'' No, sir ; no one has been since the Vicar
and Miss Geraldine left."

Oh, well, ril call again in the morning
and see how he is."

Something was going on  that was evident.
The question was, Where ? It is an awkward
undertaking to prowl round a neighbour s house
in the character of a volunteer detective ; but
it was too critical a moment for the calmest
of men to stand upon ceremony. Reginald
had noticed a light in the library, and the
curious fact that one of the shutters had either
been only partially closed or else had been
partially opened since the closing. This
fact had been easy to discover by the perpendicular
stream of light that came through the
white blind. When Johnson shut the door,
Reginald, remembering this, went straight
down the drive between the flower-beds, and
passed out into the park, to put possible
Watchers off their guard, and then passed

round over the grass among the trees to
another entrance to the garden, leading through
the grass walk and the rose-corner to the
principal entrance again. He tried, as he
made his way under the trees of the park, to
see whether his disappearance had encouraged
any lurking figures to come forth ; but he was
by that time, being rather short-sighted, too
far off to distinguish anything at the library
window. When, however, he made his way
cautiously round to the principal entrance again,
and thence to the corner of the house, where,
concealed behind an ornamental fir tree, he had
a good view of the facade of the building, his
patience was rewarded not only by the sight of
three men crouching under the library window,
one of whom appeared to be looking in, but b}'
hearing some of their words.

For the first few minutes he could make
out nothing intelligible, nor could he understand
how a man could see through a linen blind.
Growing bold as he became accustomed to his
position and felt his security, Reginald pressed
himself so closely Into the fir tree as to be within
a few yards of the three men, for the library

A DOG WITH A BAD NAME.

was the first room on this side of the house.
And then he recognized the man nearest to him 
one of the two who were crouching down and
not looking In  by voice and figure as LIndley
Fielding. And, as he kept quite still and held
his breath, he heard the man farthest from him 
the second crouching down  say 

How long were you warder while he was
there ? "

Two years, or thereabouts."

*' Then you couldn't make a mistake ? "

'' Not exactly."

'' Then you are satisfied ? " whispered
LIndley.

Quite, sir."

'' Then your work Is done ; and yours " 
to the other man  " Is all before you."

'* Yes, sir ; but It Is pretty plain sailing
now."

'' Then come away where there Is less risk
of being seen."

LIndley raised himself softly, carefully hid
the traces of his visit by digging up, v/Ith a
bit of stick, the mould his feet had pressed
down, and, stepping on to the path, made his

way towards the back of the house, followed by

his two companions. As soon as they had

turned the corner, and were out of sight,

Reginald stepped quickly to the library-window.

A slit recently made with a pen-knife in the

white blind, and enlarged just enough to give

a good view for one eye into the room showed

the means by which the warder had recognized

the escaped convict. The window was not

fastened, and this fact suggested to Reginald

that the means of observation had been cleverly

made from the outside. He looked in and

saw that, as he had expected, James Otway was

the only occupant of the room. He had

evidently been writing at the bureau, for he was

standing before it, fastening down an envelope ;

and Reginald's eyes, calmly observant even at

that exciting moment, noticed from the rapidity

with which he snatched up a pen and scrawled

something on it, that the letter was not intended

to go by the post. And the next guess he made

was the name written on it, for James pressed

his lips to it as he strode hurriedly across the

room'to the door. The few moments' pause

which Reginald had made was not the result of

curiosity, but of consternation at the young
man's appearance and manner, of consequent
hesitation as to the best way of making the
startling announcement the latter had to hear.
For James's face was flushed, his eyes were
heavy, his hands trembled as they held the
pen ; he was evidently the prey of some strong
excitement. Reginald wondered whether he
had been forestalled in his warning ; his momentary
delay lost him his chance of speaking, for
James left the room so quickly that his friend's
sharp tap at the window was lost In the opening
and shutting of the door.

James ! " he called ; but it was too late.
He went back quickly to the entrance, rang the
bell, and, while waiting, tore off the blank half-sheet
of a letter he found In one of his pockets,
and wrote upon It, In such French as came first
into his head 

Je viens de voir trots hommes accroupis
pres de la centre de la bibllotheque, occupies a
pier vos movements par moyen d'un trou dans
le store. L'un dieux etait votre cousin vaurien.
Je ne says si cela doit vous inquleter, mats
puisque la circonstance est un peu hors du

commun, je trouve mieux de vous en faire part,
lis ont disarm, mats ils ne se sont pas eloignes,
car dares ce que je les ai entendu dire, ils
sont allies se cacher dans un autre endroit pres
de la maison. Ils ignorant absolument qu'on
les ait arcus, car j'etais en cachette. Si je
puis vous etre utile a quelque chose, vous savez
bien que vous pouvez me commander. Je vais
fumer un cigar dans le pare avant de rentrer
chez moi, ainsi vous saurez ou me trouver en
cas que vous ayez besoin de moi.

R. B."

He was still enoaoed in writing this with a
pencil, by the light of the hall lamp, when
Johnson opened the door.

"Will you give this to Sir James immediately,
please, Johnson ? " said he impressively
to the old servant.

Yes, sir. I will certainly do so, if I can
see Sir James," answered the butler gravely.

These unorthodox interruptions to the
peacefulness of his evening hours rather annoyed
him.

Your master has not yet gone to bed, I

know. You are an old friend of the family,
Johnson ; and, as you value the peace and
safety of its members, don't fail to deliver this
at once."

As he said these words in a very low voice,
a creaking door was heard to open inside the
house. Johnson, instantly mollified by the well-judged
speech, promised to take the note to his
master, and Reginald retired into the park,
keeping watch on the house while he smoked
a cigar. As he sauntered down the drive for
about the sixth time, preferring, with his
habitual prudence, the gravel to the wet grass,
he heard the sound of a gate opening near the
house, and a noise of wheels and hoofs. He
turned and quickened his pace towards the
house ; before he got very near, he heard James
Otway's voice say '' All right," and, just as the
phaeton turned the corner of the house and
came in sight, Reginald saw a man's figure
crossing the garden quickly towards it from the
other end of the house. It was a mail phaeton,
and the hood was half-up, so that its occupants
could not be distinctly seen ; the horses were
whipped up sharply at that moment, and the

pursuing figure, altering his course, made
straight for the lodge. But Reginald guessed
his object, and, throwing away his cigar, turned
and ran in the same direction. He was not a
particularly good runner, being indolent and
without much staying power ; but he was lightly
built, long of limb, and had a good start of the
other man. He reached the rates a hundred
yards ahead of his competitor, unfastened them,
panting, and flung them wide, just in time for the
phaeton to dash through, while James, who was
driving, said, 'thanks, old fellows, God bless
you ! " as the man in pursuit ran up just too
late.

'' Confound you ! " he angrily exclaimed.
*' Who was that ? "

Reginald made no answer, but turned to
saunter back towards the Vicarage just as the
lodge-keeper came sleepily out to see what was
the matter. A moment after, however, the man,
whom Reginald then recognized as the one who
had looked through the library-window, and
whom he had understood to be a warder of the
prison where James had been confined, came
up and, touching his hat very civilly, said 

'' I beg your pardon, sir. I am sure no
gentleman of your stamp would willingly
impede an officer of the law in the execution of
his duty."

'' I don't know," said Reginald, thoughtfully,
'* when it is a question of saving another gentleman
of my stamp from being impeded in the
execution of his."

"Would you oblige me, sir, by telling me
the name of the gentleman who drove out just
now ? "

Upon my word I didn't see him."

But you know who it was, sir."

Well, and if so "

"Then I should be much obliged if you
would tell me his name. You see, he is gone,
so no harm could happen to him, even if harm
were intended."

I am sorry I don't feel justified in obliging
you."

Thank you, sir. May I trouble you for
your name and address ? "

My name is Bamber ; I am staying at the
Vicarage here."

Thank you, sir. Good night, sir ! "

Good night ! "

Reginald returned home, sincerely glad to
have been the means of helping his imprudent
and unlucky friend to evade the hand of justice,
but good-naturedly sorry for the bitter disappointment
his guilty flight would cause to
poor Geraldine. With this latter feeling, however,
was mingled a little natural satisfaction at
the confirmation of his own prediction and at
the providential removal from her neighbourhood
of a man whose society was almost contamination
for a being like her.

Unfortunately, the being herself would not
look at the matter in a proper light. She cried
herself to sleep that night over the ne'er-do-weel's
well-deserved misfortunes, and was on
thorns next day until the afternoon, when,
escorted by Miss Gretton's most trusted servant,
who combined the duties of ladies-maid and
upper-housemaid, she started by train for Gold-borough,
where she took a cab to Waringham.
She had been wily enough not only to refrain
from defending James from Miss Gretton's
attacks, but to join In disparaging him In favour
of Reflnald Bamber. For all that, she sat well

back in the cab that she might not have to delay
her arrival at the Hall in order to stop and
speak to Reginald, when she caught sight of
him walking slowly along the road just outside
the park-gates ; but he was not so near-sighted
as to fail to see her ; and, while her heart beat
fast and her eyes sparkled with impatience, he
stopped the cab and came up to the window.
She was too much excited by thoughts of someone
else to notice that he did not look quite so
calmly superior to human emotions as usual.

'' You are going up to the Hall, Miss Lindley
? " he asked, when she had answered his
greetings rather shortly.

Yes ; I  I want to see whether Miss
Eleanor is any better."

I am afraid you won't find her very well
to-day." He paused. '' I am afraid you will
find them all in some anxiety."

She looked at him with suddenly awakened
attention, the colour dying out of her face.
Reginald looked down at his boots, as he added,
in a lower voice 

'' It is all right ; everybody is well and safe ;
but  James "

What ! Make haste, please ! "

"Nothing; only -james went away last
night."

She said nothing for a few moments, and he
did not look at her ; but he heard her breath
coming in short quick gasps.

"Went away ! How ?" she whispered, at last.

Oh, he is all right ; he went by himself! "
he answered reassuringly ; and, looking at last
into her wistful, anxious eyes, he felt for a
moment that he actually envied the escaped
convict James Otway. " I  I didn't mean to
alarm you ; he Is quite safe by this time "

'' By this time ! " she echoed, in anxious
inquiry.

Yes. There were some men here last
night who tried to stop him ; and I think one
was a detective. And you were right about
Mr. Fielding; it was he who brought them."

A sudden fire woke in the girl's sad eyes.

How did you find out all this ? " she asked,
after a pause.

"Did you think I should forget my promise?"
he asked reproachfully. " I came straight back
here last night, as I told you I should do. I

VOL. II. 26

saw and heard the men, wrote a note to warn
James, waited in the park till he came out, and
opened the gates for the phaeton just in time
for him to drive through before one of the men
came up to stop him. Haven't I kept my word
to you ? "

'' Yes," said she, in a choking voice ; 'thank
you ? "

He would rather have seen her less profoundly
grateful ; but it was something to feel
the warm pressure of her hand, to see the soft
light in her eyes, even for this service rendered
to his  no, no, not rival, but  well, this contemptible
proud of hers !

Their whispered conversation was over, and
the cab was driving slowly through the park.
Geraldine did not cry ; but she sat very still,
and asked the maid to draw up the windows,
with a sudden feeling that it had grown very
cold. She had for an instant debated within
herself whether she should not now turn back,
instead of exposing herself uselessly to the
taunts and unkindness of Miss Elizabeth, or
even to the possibility of that lady's having
ofiven orders that admittance should be denied

to her. But, for the first time, now that there
was no one at the Hall to protect her from the
younger Miss Otway's savage insolence, Geraldine
felt her fear melt away ; and the resolve
to find out all she could about James's departure
caused her to conquer every outward trace of
nervousness before she arrived at the house.

Johnson's usual stolidity gave way when he
saw her. Alarm, relief, anxiety, showed themselves
by turns in his face, when, having ordered
that the cab should wait, she asked for Miss
Otway. As soon as he had conducted her far
enough across the hall to be out of hearino[- of

o o

the maid, he stopped, and saying, in a low
voice 

'' Sir James left Waringham last night,
ma'am, and intrusted me with this letter for
you, and told me particularly not to let it out
of my hands to any one but you," he handed
her a letter addressed simply to " Miss Geraldine
" on a salver which he had taken from the
hall-table as he passed.

So great an apprehension did the butler
entertain of Miss Elizabeth's rummaging propensity
that he had not slept the night before

until he had locked Sir James's letter safely in
the plate-chest. Geraldine tore it open at once,
and Johnson retreated respectfully into the
inner hall, from the safe shelter of which he,
however, being quite as deeply concerned in
the affairs of the Otwayss as the young lady
herself could be, watched her as she read it ;
and he saw : first, that she was very deeply
moved by it, though she stood quite still and
uttered no sound ; and, secondly, that the
emotions the letter produced were not all painful
ones, though her eyes were full of tears long
before she had read to the end. The letter
was as follows :

'' My Dear Geraldine,

I doubt whether you Vvill be able
to make out what little sense this note contains
; perhaps you will laugh at the silly
confession I dare not make in any other
manner. I love you, Deldee, and for love of
you I am going away to-night  where, I do
not know. Don't trouble your kind heart
about me, for I am only leaving a place I
hate for the sake of a woman whose love

I may not win. I have no wife, Deldee, for
the woman I married has left me ; but she is
still alive and "

There was more still to read when the
drawing-room door opened and Elizabeth came
out. If Geraldine had not been so much excited
and absorbed by the letter in her hands,
she would have been more surprised by the
changed manner of the lady, who, after a glance
at the letter, held out her hands most cordially,
and said, with her bright, artificial smile 

Come in, come in, my dear Geraldine.
You will have to let me call you Geraldine now.
Your arrival could not possibly have been more
opportune."

She led the girl, who slipped her precious
letter quickly into her pocket, into the drawing-room,
where, with a little cry she could not
repress, Geraldine recognized James's would-be
betrayer, Lindley Fielding. He was sitting beside
Eleanor, whom the sorrow and excitement
of the past few days seemed to have withered
up and rendered more like a witch than ever.

That man ! " she whispered, in too low

a voice for the exclamation to reach his ears.
*' He says he is your father' said Elizabeth,
in a voice just as low, detaining the girl for a
moment.

I will never believe it."

Well, my dear child, I happen to have it
in my power to prove that it is not true ; therefore
you need not be afraid of him."

Geraldine was beginning to feel bewildered
by this unexpected kindness ; but she was led
forward without time for reflection. Just as
Lindley rose and came towards them with outstretched
hands and a smile of effusive affection
upon his face, Elizabeth stepped in front of the
girl and said 

One moment, Lindley. Before you give
this young lady the hearty welcome which I see
you have prepared for her, it will be better for
her to know in what character she is to be
received among us."

Certainly," assented Lindley, beaming with
paternal tenderness.

"We have decided, Geraldine," continued
she, turning to the perplexed girl and taking
her hand, ** that the best way in which we can

carry out the wishes both of our poor brother,
Sir Charles, and our unfortunate nephew, Sir
James, is by requesting you to make your home
with us." Involuntarily Geraldine shrank back.
'' You cannot refuse," continued Elizabeth, '' for
circumstances have come to our knowledge
which make your stay at Waringham a duty
as well as a right." Lindley was looking
satisfied, but rather surprised. " Mr. Fielding,
at the time of my late brother's illness, made
certain statements about you which, for some
reason or other, he, on the unexpected appearance
of our nephew James, denied, and which
he still denies." Lindley looked less satisfied
and more surprised. '' His motive I have not
yet discovered. But, in the mean time, I have
made inquiries about his first statement, and
have found, to my surprise, I confess, that it
was true."

Lindley fairly started.

Elizabeth, take care what you are saying !
Do you know "

I know that from the moment there is no
longer any mystery, any family secret in your
hands, your interference in our affairs must beat

an end, Lindley," she went on, with cold,
slow triumph. '' So, with many thanks to you
for your obliging offer to take this young lady
off our hands in the character of your daughter,
I beg to inform you that your offer of service is
needless, and that Miss Geraldine Otway will
reside for the future in the house of her late
guardian, under the care of my sister Eleanor
and myself, who, in pursuance of our brother's
wish, adopt her as our niece."

It was a blow to Lindley, for this bold
stroke had indeed cut the sound from under
his feet. Geraldine living at the Hall as his
daughter, and in the pride of his secret he had
stipulated that she should live there, would
have given him right of entry, social standing,
and more solid benefits in the way of
perquisites ; so that he stood confounded, admiring,
in spite of himself, the bold manner in
which Elizabeth had cast aside prejudice in
order to outwit him.

Having resolved upon a daring course,
Elizabeth pursued it worthily, and ended by
telling Geraldine that, as soon as possible after
the funeral, she should expect the girl to come

and take up her residence at the Hall. As
she wisely rose, to leave the girl a little time
for reflection on this bewildering communication,
Lindley, who had recovered from his consternation,
approached his cousin in his usual
airy manner, and said, in a low voice with a
smile which had no irresistible charm for her 

''So you think it is check-mate, my fair
cousin ? But you ought to know better. You
have met my opening move well ; but the
game is only just begun. Keep your eyes on
the board, that you may make a fair fight of it,
as, with your spirit, I am sure you would like
to do ; but the end will be all the same."

'' I dare say you think that sort of talk very
clever, Lindley ; but I confess I am not good at
it myself; so I will tell you in plain English
that you are quite at liberty, as far as I am
concerned, to play what games you please,"
said Elizabeth, without taking the trouble to
lower her voice as she left the room.

CHAPTER V.

No sooner had his cousin left the drawing-room
than Lindley Fielding, forsaking Eleanor and
her moaning affection, crossed to where
Geraldine sat staring out at the oaks in the
park. The sight of the middle-aged Adonis
who had first disturbed her peace in Copsley
churchyard, whose ill-considered announcement
had killed her guardian, who was James's enemy,
and whom she feared as she had never feared a
human being before, was extremely distasteful
to her. But he approached her so respectfully,
apologized for obtruding upon her so courteously,
that it was impossible to meet his well-managed
advances with a rebuff.

'rit has been my misfortune. Miss Geraldine'
he began gravely, "to be associated in

your mind with several distressing circumstances;
nevertheless, I hope you will remember that it
was through my feint of assuming the happy
position of father to you that my cousin
Elizabeth was induced to fulfil her duty towards
you. No, no, I want no thanks ; no one ever
thinks of thanking me. There is hardly a
member of the family whom I have not served
at one time or another, and you see how they
treat me ! "

I am afraid your services towards them
must sometimes have been misunderstood, Mr.
Fielding."

Perhaps so ; but is that my fault ? " he
asked, with much meekness.

*' I don't know. Do you think James Otway
has reason to feel grateful to you ? "

Most assuredly he has ; and the time will
come I acknowledge that it has not come yet
when he will confess that he owes more to tie
than any one in this world."

"He doesn't by any means take that view
of his obligations to you now," said she rather
drily.

What does he charge me with ? " asked

Lindley, in a tone of patient resignation to
calumny, but with a glance of keen Inquiry.

*' He speaks of you as his worst enemy ;
and, indeed. If It be true, as I have been told,
that you brought the police here last night, I
can't think his opinion of your services to him
too highly coloured," replied Geraldine, with
rising passion in her voice.

Lindley, who had been unable to repress all
show of consternation at her mention of the
police, quickly recovered from his astonishment
and heaved a deep sigh, perhaps to gain a little
time for thought.

*' My usual luck ! " he exclaimed at last, with
a shrug. "You have only heard one-half of
the story. When I found that the police were
after him, I came with them, in order to delay
their movements while I found means of warning
James to escape."

It was you, then, Mr. Fielding, who sent
word to him that the police were upon
him?"

'' No," said he frankly, seeing by her tone
that it would be unwise to assume the credit of
his kinsman's escape. " By some means or

Other he got wind of their arrival before I
could send word to him ; and I rejoiced at this,
for the fact of his having taken a most unreasonable
prejudice against me would perhaps
have prevented his believing a message from

me.

You admit that he is prejudiced against
you :

And I add that the prejudice is a most
unjust one. You shall judge for yourself." He
watched her narrowly as he continued, speaking
slowly and with great precision. '' When James
was committed to prison, five years and a half
ago, charged, with five others, with the murder
of Hughes, the farmer, I went all the way from
London to see him, being the only one of his
relatives who took any trouble about him  I
confess with some curiosity to see whether it
really was my relative, James Otway of
Waringham, who was in this sorry plight ; but
I went at the same time prepared to do all in
my power for him, should this prove to be the
case. But he, doubtless having heard nothing
but abuse of me all his life from my kind
relatives, took it Into his head that I had come

to exult over him  Imagine a poor devil like me
exulting over anybody !  and assailed me with
a volley of hard words, which I bore pretty well,
as I am used to them."

And you mean to say this is the sole
ground of his mistrust of you ? "

'rit Is, I assure you."

Had you never seen him before ? "

Not since he was a boy, when I used to
tip him with the half-crowns which were never
very plentiful with me."

'what a very strange antipathy ! "

Strange indeed, Miss Geraldlne ; but I
intend to overcome it."

I am afraid you will not find that easy."

I agree with you ; but to me the difficulty
of an undertaking constitutes its charm. Now
the difficulty of mine can scarcely be exaggerated
; for not only have I set myself the task
of overcoming James Otway 's mistrust of me,
but I have determined to earn his gratitude by
enabling him to make a fresh start In life  out
of the country, of course."

Geraldlne started.

Never to come back to England ! " she

murmured. '' It would be as bad as being in
prison."

*' I don't think James would agree with you
in that, hard as it of course is to be cut off
for ever from  one's relatives. One consolation
I can however give you, Miss Geraldine  he is
the sort of man to accommodate himself easily
to change of circumstances, to pluck what
pleasure comes to hand, to make himself happy
wherever wine is cheap and  well, I need not
mention the other condition."

Yes, that is just the impression he gave
me," said Geraldine coolly.

Lindley, who was impressionable, and whose
strength lay in his power of exciting himself,
began to find this girl who could think for herself
irritating and depressing; and, with a
feeling that if he remained any longer in her
society he might spoil the impression he had
made, which was not wholly unsatisfactory, he
soon found means to break up the tete-astute,
and to rejoin the less attractive but more
sympathetic Eleanor, who, from the farther end
of the long room, had furtively watched them
and wondered what they were talking about.

Then Geraldine left the room in search of
Elizabeth. She wanted to exchange a few
more words with that lady on the subject of
the astonishing revelation of that afternoon,
and then to go back to Copsley and to pour out
the strange tale to Miss Gretton ; she wanted,
above all, to look once more at the dear dead face
of her father. She went from the outer to the
inner hall and called " Johnson ! " in the hope of
his being about. He appeared from the diningroom,
and approached her rather mysteriously,
with a glance round at the various doors and a
glance up the staircase. Then he produced a
well-worn man's morocco pocket-book, which,
in perfect silence, he put into her hand, with a
look of some triumph.

What is this ? " she asked, surprised.

Johnson glanced around and above again
before he answered her in the oracular tone
which the imperfectly educated delight to assume
at a time of excitement.

There have been many strange things
going on here lately, ma'am, things that we
must wait the Lord's time to clear up. Mrs.
Symes, I have reason to think, knows more

than anybody ; but she is close, as perhaps Is
best under the circumstances. Mrs. Symes
gave this to me, ma'am ; she picked it up in
my poor dear master's room, and she said tome
 ' Give this to Miss Geraldlne ; she has
the best right.' She gave it to me not ten
minutes ago, ma'am, Avhen she heard you were
here."

Who is Mrs. Symes ? " asked Geraldlne,
looking at the pocket-book, which contained
some letters, with an uneasy feeling of mystery
upon her. "Is it that dreadful-looking old
woman ? " she began, and then checked herself.
'' Yes, ma'am ; she is the housekeeper."
Geraldlne was inclined to fancy that the
weird, gray-faced woman had cast some spell
upon the pocket-book which rendered it a thing
with which it were better to have nothing todo.
Besides, whoever was the owner of it, it
was clearly not she ; but it then occurred to
her that this Mrs. Symes, who had sat by Slr
Charles's death-bed, and who was reported to
know so much, doubtless knew that she was
his daughter, and, in any case, must have good
reasons for this course ; so, after examining the
VOL. ir. 27

outside of the pocket-book with much hesitation,
she was proceeding to open it with
strangely reluctant fingers, when the butler,
who had watched her movements of uncertainty
and surprise without a word, softly turned the
handle of the dining-room door and held it
open for her.

'' Will you step in here, Miss Geraldine ?
Mrs. Symes said you had better look over it in
private."

The girl's curiosity was now fully roused.
She went in, holding the pocket-book tightly
against her, as she glanced rather timidly round
the great, dark room, which she had never been
in before, and up at the gloomy oil-paintings
of vacuous-looking dead Otwayss that stared
down out of heavy, dingy gold frames from the
walls. She drew a heavy chair to one end of
the wilderness of table, and sat down with her
back to the lofty conservatory into which the
room opened, a dreary place big enough for the
tropical trees at the Botanical Gardens, which it
would have been better to leave empty than to
garnish with a couple of india rubber plants, a
row of sickly camellias, and a meagre show of

geraniums and other plants to be bedded out
later in the season.

Geraldlne was in a few moments far too
deeply absorbed to notice either plants or
pictures, for the contents of the pocket-book, as
she turned them out, one by one, and placed
them on the table, were a series of enigmas to
which she had no clue. First came half a dozen
letters, addressed in different hands to " Henry
Hammond, Esquire, 103, Duncan Street,
Crompton." These had all been sent through
the post and opened. She ascertained this,
and placed them, without further investigation,
in a pile together. Next came a cutting from
a newspaper giving an account of a street row,
with no names, but with the hint that " It is
pretty well known who the principal delinquents
were, and the parties are advised to settle their
little domestic difficulties indoors another time."
From the literary style Geraldlne gathered that
the paper from which this was cut did not take
high rank ; from the advertisements on the
other side, and the curious Dutch names, she
learnt that the paper was published In one of
the Colonies. The next thine she took out was

a photograph. It was the portrait of a girl in carr
ill-fitting dress of the style of a few years before,
a girl so young and so pretty, even when judged
through the medium of this somewhat inartistic
reproduction, that one could forgive the want of
taste which had led her to towzle her hair too
much in front and to curl too much behind, and
to deck her round throat with a collar made of
tatting," fastened by a brooch and a bow of
ribbon, and finished off by a couple of cheap
necklaces. This photograph had been taken,
at Hollo way. On the back was written, with a
fine pen, in a scratchy, sprawling woman's hand,
*'To dearest Harry, with Ada's love." On the
memorandum-leaves of the pocket-book were
entries in a man's handwriting, probably that of
H. Hammond, the owner. Some of the leaves
had been torn out, leaving others loose ; one
fluttered to the ground unnoticed by her. She
glanced at some of the entries ; they were
merely a man's odd sittings, sometimes in the
form of an attempt at a diary, sometimes stray'
memoranda. The entries afforded her little
information ; on one page, for example, were
the following 

I'th. Dined with Russell. Don't like his
wife ; he advised me to turn over a new leaf.
What leaf ?

\(th. Popped my watch. This won't do!

'' dist. Went to Abbey ; heard Canon

Could have preached better myself. So many
well-turned sentences In so many minutes.

''22nd. Saw a body fished out by London
Bridge. Looked beastly. Thames wouldn't do
should strike out in "

Here the page ended. The next entries
were fragments of medical prescriptions, the
title of a work on poisons, and a chemist's
address In a poor part of London.

The nature of the fragments of diary interested
Geraldine enough to make her wonder
who the writer could have been, how the book
could have got into Sir Charles's room, and why
it should have been sent by the housekeeper
to her. Nothing seemed clearer than that It
had not belonged to her father ; the handwriting
was a pencil scrawl unfamiliar to her. She
was proceeding in some perplexity to open one
of the letters, when a hand was suddenly laid
upon the whole pile, at the same moment that

the pocket-book was quickly and neatly transferred
from her keeping to that of Lindley
Fielding, who stood by her with some anxiety
in his eyes, but with his mouth expanded into
his favourite bland smile.

Miss Geraldine  Miss Geraldine, I did not
expect to find you tampering with other peoples
letters ! " said he, With playfulness which was
rather forced.

And you may be sure I should not do so
without authority for such an action," she
answered with dignity. '' I must beg you to
return me the pocket-book and the letters at
once."

That would be reversing the natural order
of things," he responded, with that persistent
smile which began to irritate her as much as it
did Elizabeth. '' This pocket-book is not yours,
but mine."

Yours ! Your name is not Hammond ! "

"When I say it is mine, I mean that I have
more right to it than you. Mr. Hammond is
my most intimate friend. May I beg, in my
turn, that you will give me the letter you were
reading ? "

When Lindley's hand had so unexpectedly
swooped down upon her, Geraldlne had instinctively
kept out of his reach the letter
she had just taken up, and she still held it
firmly.

If you can give me some proof that what
you say is true, you shall have the letter," said
she, after a pause.

But Lindley smiled on. Placing his spoils
carefully in one of his pockets, he took from
another one a handful of letters and papers,
and, selecting one letter, showed her the signature
at the end, " H. Hammond." Then he
replaced it in his pocket in triumph. Reluctantly
Geraldine gave up the letter she held
and it was not until it was safely in his fingers
that it occurred to her to say 

But you did not show me that that letter
signed ' Hammond' was addressed to you."

Lindley laughed outright  quite easily now.

*' Oh, where have you learnt to be so sceptical
 you, who are still in the age of innocence
? "

I learnt it, Mr. Fielding, in Copsley churchyard,"
she replied coldly.

Having gained his object, he had retreated
a little way, and was criticizing the old pictures
airily through his eye-glass. As Geraldine was
rising from her chair, she caught sight of one
leaf of the diary on the ground at her feet, and
she did not scruple to defraud Mr. Hammond
and his most intimate friend by slipping it into
her pocket as she, with great airs of dignity,
left the room. Standing at the foot of the
staircase opposite was the gaunt housekeeper,
who had evidently been waiting for her, as she
stepped forward at a pace rather quicker than
her usual stately march.

'' You got the pocket-book, ma'am ? " she
asked, in a low voice.

Yes ; Johnson gave it to me. Whose
was it :

The nervous old woman, who inspired
Geraldine with absolute fear by the drawn look
of horror which seemed petrified upon her
withered face, glanced round her before she
answered, in a croaking whisper which made
the girl feel quite cold 

I found it by Sir Charles's bedside, ma'am ;
and I think it was dropped there by "

She had no time to ask any more questions,
for at that moment a light suddenly fell upon
the sibyl-like figure in front of her, and Geraldine
saw the old face contract with terror which
infected herself Turning sharply, she saw that
the dining-room door had been opened by
Lindley, who was standing with his eyes fixed
upon the housekeeper with a warning, almost
menacing expression. The old woman's lean
hand falteringly sought the support of the
oaken banisters, while her frightened eyes never
left his face.

'' What is that you are saying, Mrs. Symes?"
he asked suavely.

But she stood as if paralyzed, without
answering him.

'' Why, we shall have to get the doctor to
come and prescribe for you, Mrs. Symes ! " he
continued slowly, though still with much urbanity.
" You look quite ill, I declare ? "

She made a rapid eager gesture of dissent,
at least it was rapid for her.

No ? Not ill ? " he went on. " Well, if
you wish to continue in good health, I think
you cannot do better than follow the prescription

Doctor Ledbury gave you. He did give
you one, did he not ? "

*' Yes, sir," she murmured at last.

Well, keep to that ; you can't do better."

And Lindley, almost afraid of the effect his
presence evidently had on the trembling old
woman, went into the outer hall towards the
drawing-room ; but he was stopped in his
leisurely stroll by Elizabeth, who said, with a
smile as sweet as his own 

I have ordered the phaeton, Lindley, to-take
you to the station, as I knew you would
want to catch the express back to town."

He was taken aback, only for a moment-then,
showing all his fine teeth in a grin of rage
and annoyance which had no effect upon his
cousin, he said 

I won't pretend to misunderstand you 
you turn me out ! I warn you that, when my
turn comes  and it will come very soon  I
shall not feel bound to show much chivalry for a
lady who takes the family affairs into her hands
in so high-handed and masculine a fashion ! "

'* Ah, I hear the carriage ! I hope you won't
have a cold journey."

Thank you ; it will not seem cold after
my reception here. I shall have the pleasure,
Elizabeth, of seeing you again."

She gave him her cold finger-tips, still
smiling ; but, as he drove away, her face contracted
and her eyes grew anxious. She had
defeated the enemy and had forced him to
retreat ; but he had forces In reserve, and there
might be a desperate conflict before her yet.

CHAPTER VI.

Two months passed quietly away after Sir
Charles Otway's death, during which time
Lindley Fielding gave no sign. The affairs
of the late baronet were still in course of
settlement, and at the same time inquiries
concerning the story of Geraldine's birth were
being pursued, without, however, much success.
But as both Eleanor and Elizabeth, to everybody's
surprise, announced their belief in it,
and formally recognized the young girl as their
niece, she was constrained to leave the care of
Miss Gretton for the far less sympathetic
guardianship of the ladies at Waringham Hall.
A reason for Elizabeth's change of front soon
appeared. It was discovered that Sir Charles
had been a good deal better off than people
had supposed  the rigid economy of a score of

years had had its effect ; and a sum of several
thousand pounds, well invested, which he had
privately set apart and left in trust to Mr.
Massey as a provision for the girl who was
now said to be his daughter, was found to have
been the result of his frugality. What cautious
steps could be taken to find out where James
Otway had sought refuge were taken in vain 
being a convict, he could not of course claim
the property ; but means would have been
forthcoming to help him to settle somewhere
abroad, had he made his future course known
before leaving Waringham. But he had disappeared
as suddenly as he had come, leaving
no trace, and with no farewell, except the letter
to Geraldine, which the girl mentioned to no one.
She never spoke about him, except to deny
her Aunt Elizabeth's susofestion that it was his
absence which made her so grave. For the
buoyancy of her youthful spirit she seemed to
have left behind her at Copsley. Whether it
was the sadness consequent upon her father's
death, or the depressing atmosphere of the bare
old house, or the unsympathetic society of her
aunts, one of whom, however, found unconfessed

comfort In her presence  the warm and
balmy days of June found her still melancholy,
still silent, finding her only pleasure out of
doors, not under the trees of the park or among
the bright flower-beds which broke up the
smooth lawn in front of the house, but in the
old garden, shut in by the two iron gates in
the shadowy rose-corner where James had
gathered the long-since-withered sprig of Scotch
rose which she looked at by stealth so often in
her own room, or else sauntering down the
grass-walk, as she had sauntered with him,
or standing, as she had stood with him, beside
the great square pond among the trees which
now held leafy branches out over It, looking
at the green, smooth weed which was gradually
making its way over the whole surface of black,
stagnant water, and at the slimy, water-logged
boat silently decaying, as it stood moored to
its rotten post at the farther end. And she
stood and watched the water and the gnats
that swarmed over It, and the hanging birches
and the thick tangle of trees and brushwood
that hemmed it In, not In listless mournfulness,
but with her head on fire with wild plans for

bringing the man she persisted in considering
the rightful owner of the Hall back again.

She was forcing her way through the trees,
on her way back from the pond one afternoon,
her face still lighted up with her fancies, and
her lips softly uttering the words of a song,
when she came face to face with Reginald
Bamber, and the song died away. She liked
Reginald ; he was very kind and very handsome,
and he had helped James to escape ; but
the ungrateful girl could not forget that it was
he who had prophesied that her favourite would
have to escape, and the fact that his prophecy
had come true only increased his offence. She
knew at a glance what he had come for to-day ;
though she had never been wooed before, she
knew that it was in the character of a wooer
prepared to take the final plunge that he stood
before her, with his habitual calmness a little
bit shaken and an unmistakable air of having
made up his mind to look his best that day,
or die in the attempt.

They were both confused ; and she, talking
fast, led the way towards the house ; but of
course he wouldn't go.

'' You have come from the old pond, haven't
you ? " he asked. *' I should like to look at
it again ; I haven't seen it since I was a boy."

There is nothing to see," said she,
stopping reluctantly as he held back the
branches for her to pass through  '' nothing
but a horrid, unhealthy pool covered with
duckweed."

We used to think it a lovely place when
we were boys, though," he remarked, gaining
his point by persistency. " James and I used
to catch tadpoles in it and put them in bottles,
and we used to pull Tip, his terrier, across
on a raft ; and we used to have Wrestling
in the boat, which wasn't water-tight
even then, I remember."

It is very deep, isn't it ? "

I don't know. They always say that of
old ponds. ' Deep enough to drown a man in
some parts.' You are not meditating suicide,
I hope ? "

No  o," said Geraldine, thoughtfully, as if
she had not quite made up her mind.

''A pond," continued Reginald, evidently
growing nervous, '' is such a paltry place to

drown one's self in  the Atlantic would be
better ; I am going to cross the Atlantic in a
few weeks."

Are you ? " she asked quickly. " And are
you glad to be going back again ? "

'glad  and sorry. Under  under some
circumstances I should be wholly glad."

But she was not in the least interested to
know what those circumstances were, and
nothing would induce her to meet the eloquent
look which would have told her  what she
knew already. But he was going through
with the matter now.

'' It is not that I mind leaving England,"
he went on ; " it is the  the people in it  at
least, some of them  one of them."

Poor Mrs. Bamber will miss you dreadfully,
of course "

My mother has my father and my two
brothers. I think you know it is not my
mother I meant. Don't pretend to misunderstand
me," said he, nervously pulling the leaves
off a birch tree behind her. " I have wanted
to speak to you for a long time, and I have
never found the  the courage till to-day.

VOL. II. 28

Don't tell me you don't know what I mean ;
I think you must. They say every woman
knows when a man cares for her, and I think
you can't help knowing I have cared for you 
ever since I first met you. You do know it,
don't you, Geraldine ? "

"Oh, I'm so sorry! I did try to prevent
you," she cried, looking up, with a face full of
remorse and misery. '' I did know what you
meant, and I did try to stop you ; but you
would go on."

Then there was a pause, during which each,
without looking at the other, could hear the
quick breathing that told of agitation. At last
Reginald spoke very gently and sweetly.

'' Why won't you have me, Geraldine ? "

Oh, don't put it like that ! " said she
ingenuously. " It isn't that at all. It is  it is,
on the contrary, that you are so much too good
for me. Yes, yes, it is true, I do really mean
it ; not that I am particularly wicked, but that
you are so particularly good."

But if that were true, as I am sorry to say
it is not, wouldn't that be considered rather an
advantage in a husband ? "

Yes, of course ; but it would give you too
great an advantage over me."

But," suggested he very sweetly, a little
amused in spite of himself, "if I am so very good,
don't you think my influence might convert you
from your wicked ways in time ? "

But I don't want it to ! " she broke out,
laughing hysterically.

If Reginald had been able to retain his
usual calm prudence in the face of this defeat,
they might have parted on the most friendly
terms ; but his head was just a trifle heated by
the excitement, his heart slightly bitter over the
disappointment, and his vanity a good deal hurt.

'' Will you let me try my fortune with you
again. Miss Otway, if, in the mean time, I
endeavour to conform myself more to your
taste ? "

I don't understand you."

If I were to leave my friends for months
not knowing what had become of me, and let
their first tidings of me come through the
police-news, or if I were to be seen in a state of
intoxication "

Then certainly I should have a much

higher opinion of your good taste and good
feeling than I have at this moment, Mr,
Bamber," she interrupted. She had become
as white as death to her very Hps, and the fire in
her dark eyes seemed for the moment to have
gone out. '' For in the instances you mention
you would be doing harm only to yourself,
while your words just now have given, as
you meant them to give, the deepest pain to

a girl who has certainly never wished to harm

J.'
you.

I should be doing harm only to myself,
you say. Surely murder harms some one
besides the murderer ? "

James Otway is not a murderer," she cried,
with sudden passion, the light flashing swiftly
back into her eyes and the colour to her face.

Then he has been much belied."

''He has. But, with Heaven s help, his
character will be cleared some day."

Indeed I hope it may. In the mean time,
he is much to be envied."

Her enthusiasm she suddenly reined in, and,
after another short pause, she said tranquilly 

You think I am in love with him, and that

it is on his account that I refused you. Neither
supposition is correct. It was through the boy
James Otway that I was not brought up as a
farmhouse drudge ; it was through the man
James Otway that I was able to see my father
on his death-bed. I am indebted to him, therefore,
for all the happiness I have ever enjoyed ;
and, if he were never to be seen sober, and if
murder were his favourite occupation, my debt
to him would remain the same."

Then, of course, you forgive a great
deal?"

I could do so ; but I believe there is no
need. At least I believe that he is accused of
a crime he never committed. As for his faults,
that is another matter ; I see them as plainly
as you can do, and they are even more repellent
to me, a woman, than they can be to you, a
man. You mistake entirely the nature of my
feelings for James Otway. If I must speak out
clearly to explain away the offence my words
seem to have given you, I will tell you that,
though I hope and believe that he will prove
his innocence, if he were to return here a free
and stainless man, I could not marry him."

** If he is innocent, why did he run away ? *'

*' He went to seek proofs of his innocence ;
he left a letter to tell me so," she replied,
blushing.

Reginald looked sceptical.

'' Then why doesn't he come back ? "

He had touched the sensitive nerve, and her
face grew troubled in spite of herself. James
Otway had been away two months, but had
made no sign. She turned away impatiently.

'' Don't be angry with me," said he. ' I
will believe anything you like about it ; I will
let you persuade me that he has some good
reason for staying away."

She turned upon him quickly.

You talk as if my trust were quite a
childish thing that one could forgive and excuse
in a silly girl, but Which it was out of the
question for a man to consider seriously. But
it is a man who encourages me in my belief, a
man whose judgment even you would allow to be
worthy of consideration."

Reginald looked surprised and incredulous.

Captain Morrison says he has heard many
stranger stories, and he says we ought to take

some steps for finding James out, or we may
lose sight of him again al together, must as we
did six years ago. It was not a crime which
made him hide himself then, remember."

Then, if he has gone away merely from a
dislike to staying at home, it seems a waste of
time to try to drag him back against his will,
doesn't it ? Why is Captain Morrison so
anxious for him to come back ? Does he know
Otway ? "

Oh, no ! It is only an abstract question of
right with him ; but it interests him, and he is
always ready to talk about it. In fact, it is the
only subject he is ready to talk about  you
know how silent he generally is."

'' Yes," said Reginald, thoughtfully.

This Captain Morrison was a lately arrived
resident in the neighbourhood, a gentleman
about whom nothing was known except that he
was reported to be " very rich," who had taken
a small furnished house about half a mile from
the Hall, which he had now occupied for two or
three weeks. He had excited Reginald's
jealous attention by losing no time in making
the acquaintance of the Misses Otway, and

young Mr. Bamber was therefore on the alert
to look with suspicion upon the slightest
peculiarity in the conduct of his possible rival.
He could condescend to use that word in connection
with Captain Morrison, who was, it
could not be denied, a quiet, well-bred gentleman
of inoffensive manners, bigoted in his opinions
like most soldiers, but with sense enough not to
obtrude them on any one. Indeed, his excessive
reticence and reserve was the one charge which
even Reginald could at present find to bring
against him. The young man, however, at
once fastened upon this remark of Geraldine's
with the determination to try to find out what
this special interest of the stranger in James
Otway and his fortunes might mean. That it
meant something he, of course, at once decided;
that it meant something which might offend
Geraldine he was ready to hope. For the
rebuff he had met with that afternoon had by no
means been severe enough to make him give up
hope, especially since that frank declaration of
hers that she would not in any circumstances
marry James Otway. He had indeed done her
that justice in his thoughts ; but he was glad to

have the belief confirmed by her own Hps. In
spite of himself, he rather Heed her the more for
her obstinate defence of the man whom she now
called her cousin, and he managed to intimate
this to her as a peace-offering before they went
into the house and the tete-astute broke up.

On the whole, he felt, as he left the Hall,
very little like a rejected lover, a state of feeling
not due entirely to temperament, but partly also
to the fact that he had kept the currents of
emotion and passion so well under control that
Geraldine had been entirely stirred by them,
and had been able to refuse the devotion of a
life with hardly more agitation than she would
have shown in declining an invitation to dance.
Rather a cold woman ! " he thought to himself,
as he walked through the park towards the
lodge and noticed how very full the foliage of
the oaks was already ; but, on the whole, it was
a fault which he could tolerate as well as any.
If it made a girl difficult to win, it would make
her easy to keep. His hopes of ultimate success
were not much disturbed by his meeting Captain
Morrison riding up to the house, although it
was on horseback that the little officer looked

his best, for the latter could not ride Into
the drawing-room at the Hall and woo Geraldine
from the vantage-ground of a remarkably
firm seat on the back of a chestnut thoroughbred,
which he had used as a charger ; no, he
would have to dismount and disclose the
lamentable fact that his height was only five
feet two Inches, or rather less than that of
Geraldlne herself.

Nature had been rather unkind to the
captain ; for surmounting that mean and
Insignificant figure was a head which, on a taller
man, would have commanded a good deal of
admiring attention. It was finely shaped, the
curly, dark hair grew well round a broad, Intellectual
forehead ; the features of his olive-skinned
face were clear cut, and the large, deep-set
brown eyes and sensitive mouth suggested
strong capabilities both of resolution and passion.
It was an Interesting as well as a striking face ;
the more closely It was examined, the better it
was known, the more It suggested both of good
and evil.

Miss Elizabeth received him very graciously.
She had not disdained to make some inquiries'

about the stability of his fortune, and they
had been answered in the most satisfactory
manner. An old friend of the family, Admiral
Stanhope, had answered for his position and
character ; and, as the stranger began to show
admiration for Geraldine, her aunt congratulated
herself already upon her wisdom in adopting
a girl who lost so little time in proving
herself a credit to the family. It was rather
remarkable, considering how reserved the man
was, how quickly he had got sufficiently into
Geraldlne's confidence for her to speak to him
quite freely upon the subject of the missing
James Otway ; perhaps it was the evident fact
that he listened with real interest, and not
merely with lover-like attention, which made
her speak to him on this matter so openly.
For they were never long en tete-astute without
touching upon the subject, though the girl herself
could seldom tell what had led to it ; his
interest in the matter, which, if she had cared
more about his attention, it would have occurred
to her to think was even deeper than that he
felt for herself, caused her no surprise ; she
was too much absorbed by it to wonder at

the attraction the subject had even for a
stranger.

On this afternoon, as soon as he had an
opportunity of speaking to her privately, as he
handed her a cup of tea, he asked 

Have you any tidings yet ? "

No," she said mournfully.

Do you think he can have got into bad
hands ? "

What do you mean ? "

Has he any enemies ? "

'' Oh, yes ! " she answered faintly, with a
spasm of terrible fear at her heart.

Have you no means of finding out anything
about their movements either ? "

The girl did not answer for a moment ; the
question had raised a good suggestion. She
still had the card Lindley Fielding had given
her in the churchyard.

I don't know  perhaps," she said, at last
hurriedly, in a low voice ; but she would say no
further word to him on the subject, though a
light of interest came at once into his eyes as
she spoke.

Happy in the belief that he was making

love to her niece, Elizabeth was ready to give
them plenty of opportunities for conversation ;
but, from the moment of that suggestion, Geraldine
became absent and unintelligent. Something,
too, in Captain Morrison's eager attention
had made her shrink back from further confidence,
she scarcely knew why ; no distant and
delicate offer of his help in her search, should
she make any, no fresh assurance of his sympathy,
could induce her to utter another word
on the subject. From that day she avoided it
with him, for no distinct reason ; and, seeing
this change, he had the tact to let the matter
drop.

But his suggestion burned into the girl's
brain nevertheless ; she pondered it by herself,
it grew the stronger for being confided to no
one ; and at last she resolved, with fast-beating
heart and a hundred nervous girlish fears, to
act upon it. Miss Gretton was staying in
London with some relatives of hers, before her
final settlement into the semi-religious community
in which she wished to pass the remainder
of her days. Geraldine wrote to her,
asking if she might come and spend a week

with her before her final separation from the
world. The invitation obtained, the girl communicated
it to her aunts, who rather unwillingly
agreed to let her go. Eleanor sincerely missed
her gentle attentions ; Elizabeth sincerely wished
not to lose her control over the girl and her
money. In the last days of the London season,
therefore, Geraldine, attended by an encumbrance
her aunts would not let her dispense
with, in the shape of a silly maid who could not
be trusted out of sight with anything of more
value than a newspaper, arrived in Russell
Square at the boarding-house kept by a married
niece of Miss Gretton's.

The girl's plan was formed, and, on the first
day after her arrival in town, she put it in force.
On the pretext of having some commissions to
execute for her aunts, she chose the afternoon,
when her old instructress was lying down, to
send for a hansom and start off in it. To her
extreme annoyance. Miss Gretton put her head
out of her room at the last moment and insisted
upon the encumbrance, Susan, going too. What
was to be done with the oirl ? To take her all
the way was out of the question, for she would

make the most Impossible of confidants. To
leave her at a pastry cook's was not to bethought
of, as she would have time to eat up
everything in the shop and then run out,
frightened, in search of her mistress. The
British Museum would alarm her by its dulness,
the South Kensington was out of the way.

"Would you like to see the Tower of
London, Susan ? " she asked persuasively.

It was the one earthly delight she most
craved. So they drove to the Tower ; and
Geraldine, after strictly warning the girl not to
leave the building till she came for her, gave
the cabman LIndley's address in the city, and
drove off in high excitement. She had never
been in London, except on her way to and from
France ; on those two occasions she had spent
a few hours only in It with her guardian. The
city was quite new to her, and a place of
wonders and terrors ; the hurrying crowds of
men made her think some startling event had
happened somewhere, and the way in which
they ran under the very noses of the horses
made her journey one long effort to keep herself
from crying out. At last the hansom

stopped before the entrance to a narrow paved
court ; and the driver said, '' It's up there,
ma'am!" So she got out, and made her way
timidly up the dingy court, among the hurrying
throng of men, who puzzled her a good deal ;
she could not make out whether or not they
were gentlemen. They stared at her very
attentively, but made way for her as courteously
as the hurry they all seemed to be In would
permit. And one tall, fair, young man, who
wore his hat on the back of his head and
blushed as he spoke to her, raised his hat and
asked her If he could help her to find the
number she wanted ; but she did not like to
accept his offer, so he blushed again, raised his
hat, and hurried along as before. Soon she
was sorry she had declined, for she wandered
about, unable to find No. 4, for all the numbers
seemed to be covered up by printed names,
and nobody else offered to help her. She
thought this crowd of busy men very unfeeling,
and would have been much surprised to
hear that it was want of courage which prevented
them from helping her. At last she
found a policeman, and begged him to show

her which was No. 4; but he stared blankly
at the houses round him and accompanied her a
little way up the court, and then said there
wasn't a No. 4 ; and her heart was sinking,
when a gentleman, who overheard this, pointed
out the house to her, and the policeman said,
"Oh, ah, yes, to be sure ! " and took her shilling
and went away.

But now a new difficulty arose ; for among
the printed names which covered the posts of
the entrance there was no name of Fielding.
But, after a careful search, she found that the
newest-looking title of all was the 'anglo
Financial Development Association "
in very big letters, that its office was on the
ground-floor, and that the manager was " Mr.
Field "  in very small letters. And she thought
she would try that. So she found her way to
the second door on the ground-floor, where the
same inscription stared her in the face on the
ground-glass upper half of a door. She could
hear a shuffling sound inside, and dimly see
a figure bobbing about, for her first knock
was not heard. At her second louder knock
the noise ceased, and the figure disappeared ; a

VOL. II. 29

few moments later the door was opened by a
thin boy with rough hair, who looked very
warm, and who asked her to come in. She
came into a very dark and dingy room without
much furniture, opening into another, which
looked darker still.

'ris Mr. Fielding here ? " asked Geraldine,
doubtfully.

"He has left the office for to-day, miss. Is
there anything I can do for you ? I am Mr.
Fielding's private secretary," he said, with an
important air.

Oh, no, I don't think so, thank you ! Can
you tell me where he is gone to ? "

He has gone home, miss. He will not be
here again till tomorrow morning. If it is any
matter of business, I shall be happy to give you
any information."

She thought him an insufferably affected
little boy  he could not have been more than
thirteen, and she asked coldly 

Can you give me Mr. Fielding's private
address ? "

'' Very sorry, miss ; but it's against the rules
of the  of the association."

Geraldlne could understand this rule in an
association of which Lindley was the head,
little as she knew of business. She wondered
whether the private secretary was above
bribery.

*' I am giving you a great deal of trouble,"
she murmured, 'rand  er  I assure you you
need not think Mr. Fielding would mind your
giving his address to me ; " and she produced
half-a-sovereign from her purse.

The poor private secretary's dignity collapsed
at once ; he had never seen so much
money at one time since he had served under
the association.

'rit's not for any harm to him, is it? Honour
bright ? "

No ; I assure you it is not."

And  would you mind  could you  not
say anything  Oh, well, never mind that."

He took the half-sovereign with eager eyes,
and gave her the address, offering to write it
down; but she said she would remember it.
He then took his hat to escort her to the cab,
and on her suggesting that he had better not,
lest any one should call in his absence, he

volunteered the statement that there wouldn't
be anybody  to matter. So she got back more
easily than she had come, and the still radiant
private secretary gave the cabman the direction
59, Langton Street, Dorchester Place."

Within half an hour, Geraldine found herself
at the door of a house at the West-end with a
card bearing the word " Apartments " over the
door, and, on inquiring for Mr. Fielding, a
dirty servant told her Mr. Fielding was not in,
but was expected, and would she wait ? Geraldine
accepted the invitation, and was shown
by the servant up to the second floor.

What name shall I say, ma'am ? " and, to
the surprise of Geraldine, on being told, she
opened a door and announced *' Miss Lindley ! "

And Geraldine found herself in the presence
of a well-dressed lady, with a bright, pretty,
surprised young face. She almost started, for,
in spite of a great improvement in style, she
recognized in the pretty little dark head, with
hair cropped short like a boy's, the townley and
ringleted head of the girl whose portrait she
had found in the strange pocket-book  " To
Harry, with Ada's love."

CHAPTER VII.

The discovery that the pretty Httle woman
before her was the original of the photograph
she had found in the pocket-book of the
unknown " H. Hammond " startled Geraldine
Lindley so much that her momentary embarrassment
affected the cause of it, who bowed
and held out a pretty little hand rather nervously.


"My husband won't be long  in fact, I'm
expecting him every minute ; he ought to be
back by this time," said she. "Won't you
please sit down ? "

She was rather awkward and shy, and her
accent was not very refined ; but she had such
a pretty face and such a trim, slender figure, and
the inquiring way in which her long, gray eyes
looked up under their curling, black lashes was
so Irresistibly winning that Geraldine was quite

charmed by her, and thought what a pity it was
such a sweet woman should be thrown away
on a man like Lindley. It occurred to her that
this meeting was fortunate, and that she was
far more likely to get the information she
wanted from this chatterton, who was prattling
away very fast already, apparently glad to get
somebody to talk to, than from her more
cunning husband. Mrs. Fielding prepared
the way herself by undisguised curiosity concerning
the object of the lady s visit.

"Do you want to see my husband very
particularly ? Because I can't quite tell how
long he'll be, you know," she said naively.

Yes, I want to see him very much ; but,
if you think he is not likely to be here soon,
I had better call again tomorrow."

*' No, don't go ; I'm so dull, and so glad to
see anybody," said Mrs. Fielding quite eagerly.
Is it anything I can help you in ? "

Geraldine hesitated.

You are very kind. I have been adopted
by some relatives of Mr. Fielding's."

*' Oh, yes, I know who you are ! " interrupted
the other promptly.

We  we are all very anxious at Waring-ham
to know whether a nephew of my adopted
aunts, who is at present away from home, is
well. Mr. Fielding expressed an interest in
him, and I came to ask if he could relieve our
anxiety about him."

She had spoken thus freely because, at the
first allusion to James her hearer's manner had
become suddenly so mysterious that it was
evident she knew something about him. Mrs.
Fielding nodded several times, with pursed-up
lips, and then said, in a loud whisper 

Sir J. O. ? Well, I think I can tell you
all you want to know about him."

*' Oh, can you ? Is he safe ? " asked
Geraldine, eagerly.

Yes, he's safe enough, I believe, at present ;
but he's got nearly to the end of his tether by
this time, and I should think he'd have to run
for it again very soon."

Run for it ! Where is he, then ? "

'' Ah, I mustn't tell you that ! At least,
to tell you the truth, I don't know his address ;
but he was here last night."

Here ! James here ! "

'' Sh-sh, yes ! I don't believe they think
I know half so much as I do ; but, if LIndley
will keep me shut up with hardly anybody to
speak to, of course I'm bound to amuse myself
the best way I can, you know. It's only
natural, isn't it ? "

'' But they are enemies ! They are not
friends ! "

Oh, yes, they are ! I know there was a
row some time ago ; but they've got over that,
and I know there's a talk of J. O. going abroad
again, if they get too close upon his track."

Going abroad again, do you say ? "

Why, yes ! Didn't you know he'd been
abroad ?'*

Yes ; but not lately."

Well, he's only been back a week ; if you
don't call that ' lately ' "

Only a week ! Where has he been then ?
asked Geraldine, trying hard to appear less
deeply interested then she really felt.

"Oh, they've been all over the place 
France, Spain, Italy ; they've done a lot in
nine weeks ! "

'' Has Mr. Fielding been with him then ? "

My husband ! " said she, with a burst of
laughter. " No ; he would have been rather
de troy I should think."

Geraldine dared not put another question :
a great fear had fallen upon her; she felt
strangely agitated, and she waited, while her
breath came quickly, and a fluttering, choking
sensation rose to her throat from her heart, for
the other to continue.

'' I shouldn't have let my husband go with
them if he had wanted to ; he is not too much
to be trusted at any time."

'' How long has Sir James been married ?"
asked Geraldine, speaking slowly, and controlling
her voice with some difficulty.

Married ! He isn't married ; at least

Oh, of course, if you like to put it like that, he
was ' married ' just after Sir Charles died !
But it had been going on before then, you
know," she added mysteriously.

Not married ? " said Geraldine, in a low
voice.

'* No. How can he marry her while Mr.
Farquhar is alive ? unless, of course, Mr. F.
divorces her. But I don't expect, between

ourselves, J. O. will keep constant long enough
for that."

Geraldlne rose, unable to bear more of
these revelations, made, too, in a tone and
manner that jarred upon her delicacy at every
sentence. But she stood stupidly confused,
shaken, absolutely unable to see or find her
way to the door.

What's the matter ? " cried her active
hostess, jumping up in alarm, and Instantly
effacing the bad impression she had just made
by her pretty solicitude. '' Oh, I see, it's my
fault  I told you too suddenly ! Never mind ;
sit down ; let me get you a glass of wine ; yes,
do ! Didn't you know of it, then ? " she added,
after a pause, during which Geraldlne had sat
down again.

'* No," said she quietly. " We had not
heard all the story."

'' It's very sad, isn't it ?" said Mrs. Fielding,
changing her tone with some tact, *rand very
wicked, too. However, he'll have to pay for
it soon, by all accounts."

'' But surely he knows the danger he is in,"
said Geraldlne, quickly.

Love makes us all blind, they say."

And you don't know where he lives ? "

*' No. He's always a rover, and he'd need
to rove now."

Geraldine paid little heed to some voluble
but vague comments which followed from the
little chatterton, on the wickedness of men in
general and the impossibility of trusting them.
Even now she resisted the conclusion that James,
who had been so gentle, so sweet, so grateful for
her kindness, who had sworn in the incoherent
letter he had left for her that one of the motives
of his sudden departure was the resolution to
clear himself from the charge brought against
him, could be the subject of this second story
of guilt. Still clinging to her old belief that
he was the victim of some conspiracy, of which
Lindley Fielding was the promoter, she cast
about quickly in her mind for some form of
question which would be likely to lead to a clue.

'' You have seen James Otway yourself ? "
she asked.

Oh, yes, lots of times ! " she answered,
surprised. " I tell you he was here last night."

Do you like him ? "

'* Oh, yes ! Jimmy's a nice fellow. He
used to be rather glum and gloomy ; but he's
got over that, and Is very jolly ; he and I have
great fun."

Geraldlne listened with tightly-compressed
lips. It was a convincingly likely view to betaken
of James by a woman of Mrs. Fielding's
level of culture. A flush of shame at her own
interest in this man rose to her cheeks, and for
one moment she felt inclined to retreat, satisfied
that he was unworthy another thought of hers.
But, even as she rose to take leave, some
subtle misgiving as to the trustworthiness of
the evidence against him rose aoaln in her
loyal mind : and she asked abruptly 

'' Do you know a man named Hammond ? "
In an instant the manner of the giddy little
woman underwent a complete change. The
colour left her cheeks, the smile died out of her
face, the chattering lips fell Into silence, as she
started up with round, staring eyes fixed upon
her visitor with fear and suspicion.

Harry ! " she faltered at last. In an altered
voice. " Do you come from him ? Where Is
he ? What have you come to say ? "



Geraldlne was bewildered.

*' Harry ! " she echoed unlntelHgently.

Yes, Harry. Now don't pretend ''

She stopped and stared at the other more
calmly still. '' Why, she's not pretending ! "
she exclaimed at last, much puzzled. " Then
why do you ask ? Where do you come from ?
What do you mean ? " she continued, her voice
rising higher and higher in impatient, amazed
inquiry.

"I only asked If you knew a man named
Hammond ? "

The name caused the woman to start again,
and to shudder.

Yes, of course I do," she said in a whisper.
'' You know that, or you wouldn't ask. Now
tell me quickly ; what does he want  and Is he
anywhere near ? "

She was In such evident terror that
Geraldlne made haste to say 

Don't be frightened. I tell you I know
nothing about him : I have heard the name,
and I want to know who he is."

"Well, don't ask me then, and don't ask
my husband, for he isn't likely to tell you much.

In fact, I don't know anybody who will, for
it is a subject we're all rather shy of."

'' Who is he ? "

'' I  I aren't tell you. It Is of no use to
ask me."

Well, why Is everybody afraid of him ?
Is he some very wicked person, or "  a new
thought striking her  " Is he some one connected
with the police ? "

I don't know anything," answered the
other, fidgeting about, and then suddenly
brightening as a knock and a ring were
heard.

Geraldine felt that her chance had escaped
her. A minute later, LIndley, having already
learnt her arrival from the servant, entered the
room with an expansive smile of welcome.

'' What happy chance has procured us this
most unexpected pleasure ? I could scarcely
believe the evidence of my own ears when the
maid told me who was here," said he, having
already discovered by the traces of agitation
In both women, that some sort of exciting
interview had taken place.

'' I am staying In London for a few days

With my old governess ; and, having learnt
your address, I thought I would call and inquire
if you had heard anything about Sir James
Otway. You know you said you were going
to help him, Mr. Fielding."

He glanced at his wife, saw by the guilty
manner in which she avoided meeting his eyes
that she had been prattling, and by the inquiring
anxiety in the face of the other that nothing of
serious Importance had leaked out.

'' I have heard from him," he admitted
cautiously.

You have done more than that, you have
seen him ! " said she quickly.

He looked at his wife, whose pretty eyes
implored him not to be angry with her for her
indiscretion. Then he turned, with a smile.

Some things you came to learn you have
already learnt, I see ; now what is left for me
to tell you ? "

Under his bland manner it was not difficult,
in a man of so emotional a temperament as
Mr. Fielding, to detect anxiety. Geraldine
hesitated. He turned to his wife.

'' Now, Ate, what have you told Miss

Lindley ? What is there left for me to
tell?"

She looked at him pleadingly as she faltered
out 

I only said that I had seen him, Sir James
Otway, lately  and  and that he had come
back  and  and had been away  and  and
Mrs. Farquhar "

Her voice died away entirely; but her
husband, with his hand on her shoulder, took
up her speech reassuringly 

Yes, yes, that Is quite true, my dear ; and
what next ? "

Nothing else, I think," said she, brightening
at once.

'well, and what more do you wish to
know, Miss Otway ? " said he, still smiling
more urbanely than ever. 'sir James Is at
present fairly out of harm's way in one sense,
though I regret to say that in another," he
continued, assuming the air of a sad and stern
moralist, ** he Is very far from being as safe as
we could wish to see him. This circumstance
makes it impossible, as you will understand, forme
to offer to arrange a meeting between you."

But his early and grave insistence on this
point naturally woke her suspicions again.

But you can give me his address that I
may write to him ? "

Lindley looked scandalized.

'' I am afraid I cannot give it to a young
lady, considering the manner in which my
unfortunate relative  to use no harsher term 
is living."

Geraldlne moved impatiently.

Then I must hunt on my own account
for his address  as I did for yours ; and I have
little doubt that I shall be successful."

This timely reminder that she was a young
woman of inconvenient energy impressed
Lindley, who suddenly pulled out his watch,
and looked at it as he evidently debated some
point with himself. Then he turned to her
more coolly.

I see. Miss Lindley, that you are unable
to rise above those suspicions of my integrity
which have been transmitted to you by my
cardboard cousin Elizabeth," he said, with
dignity. " Since, in vindication of my own
veracity you force me to this step, I believe

VOL. IL 30

that I can, if you have self-command enough
for the ordeal, give you ocular demonstration
of the truth of what we have told you."

Instinctively she shrank from the thought ;
but, as she fancied she saw that he was eager
to take advantage of this reluctance to drawback
from the offer, she summoned all her
courage and said 

*' I have self-command enough ; crime me
this proof, if you can'

He rose quickly, scarcely gave her time to
bid good-bye to his astonished wife, hurried
her downstairs, and into the hansom which
stood waiting for her at the door.

King's Cross, Great Northern," he called to
the driver as he got in with her. " Drive fast."

Geraldine sat very quietly ; and her self-contained
manner did not give the least hint
to Lindley of the fear and mistrust of him
which undeniably formed part of the tumult of
strong feelings which excited her. He kept
up talk on indifferent matters, almost without
aid from her, until they came in sight of the
station, and she then perceived that he was
almost as anxious and excited as she was

herself. She had resolved diet she would on
no account let herself be persuaded to enter
a train with him ; and when, after helping her
out, opening his purse and nonchalantly appealing
to her with the remark that he had brought
the wrong one, he tried to hurry her into the
station, she said 

I cannot go any farther, Mr. Fielding ;
Miss Gretton is expecting me."

His courtesy gave way at once.

What fools women are ! " he muttered
angrily. '* I don't want to run away with you.
I only want you to come inside the station and
see two people who either are here already, or
will be here very soon."

He was in a state of such strong agitation
that his thick-set, muscular frame trembled ashe
Glanced round him with the same nervous
watchfulness that he had shown for the last
five minutes. At sight of another hansom
driving straight towards where they stood, he
left her without ceremony and hurried into the
station. As the cab stopped, however, it proved
to contain only two city men, and Lindley, who
Had apparently found means of watching unseen.

came out again. Geraldlne, who knew that
there was no possibility of carrying her off
against her will, made up her mind to follow.
He led her into a waiting-room, where she sat
down, while he watched the arrivals at the
station through a window, and she watched him.
About ten minutes had passed, during which
a few people, all of them strangers, had passed
quietly in and out of the room, when Lindley
crossed the floor to where she sat, without a
word, but in a state of violent excitement. He
touched her arm, and signed to her to come
quickly to the window. They were unseen
from the outside, though their own view was
unimpeded. From a hansom which had just
stopped a lady and gentleman had got out ;
the latter was paying the cabman, while the
former walked slowly on towards the interior
of the station. She was tall, well and handsomely
dressed, of superb figure and carriage 
she wore a lace veil through which it was
impossible to distinguish her features ; but
just as surely as a certain elasticity of tread
told that she was young, so surely did a certain
pride in her bearing betray the fact that she

was reckoned handsome. Geraldlne watched
her Intently, without yet knowing why, while
Lindley at her ear kept whispering 

Hush, hush ! "

She did not understand, for she had not
shown the least inclination to cry out. A
minute later, she understood his warning. The
gentleman, who had been almost hidden from
view behind the lady on whom all her attention
had been fixed, now hurried after his companion,
and, bending towards her very solicitously,
took gently from her hand the bag she was
carrying, with a few words which it was impossible
to hear, but whose purport was evidently
very kind. Lindley Fielding, on the watch,
laid his hand quickly on Geraldine's arm, with
a warning whisper, as she started violently and
drew a sharp breath through her parted lips.

For the gentleman was James Otway. No
further doubt was possible, as she gazed steadily
while he drew nearer and nearer to the window,
and passed close to it, so Intent upon his companion
that there was no fear of his seeing
any one else. She saw that the initials on the
lady's dressing-bag which he was carrying were

*' M. E. O." ; she could hear James's voice
mentioning the time at which the train was
due at Enfield ; she could hear that of the lady
in answer. She shifted her position that she
might watch them as long as possible ; and
then, when they had passed out of sight, she
turned slowly away from the window with a
rigid face and dull eyes that did not notice at
first that Lindley Fielding was no longer beside
her. After standing vacantly for a few moments,,
she collected her senses and looked round the
room. Two loud-voiced women at the table
were fussily counting their parcels, while their
three small children, planted in a row on one
of the seats, ate buns and wrangled over their
relative clumsiness. Nobody else was there.
She hardly wondered why he had gone ; it did
not matter to her, she cared for nothing but
to get away from this place where she had
played the spy with piteous results.

Mechanically she went out, hailed a hansom,
and got into it. The cabman asked her twice,
*' Where to, miss ? " before she woke up to
a clear knowledge of what she was doing.
Then she suddenly remembered all the circumstances

of the day, and poor Susan waiting
patiently at the Tower ; she gave the direction
and was just about to drive off, when Lindley
Fielding hastened up. She had no thought
of expressing surprise at his abrupt disappearance,
but he hastened to excuse himself.

I hope you will forgive my leaving you
so suddenly. Miss Lindley," said he, with his
usual silkiness, all trace of impatience and
anxiety having gone from his manner. " But
I had something to say to our young friend
James, and of course in the circumstances I
could not bring you in contact with him."

At the time he made it, she did not give
this statement a second thought ; it was only
later that, comparing it with the furtive manner
in which he had glanced to right and left, and
screened himself from view previous to James's
arrival, his explanation occurred to her as an
unlikely one.

She offered to drive him home ; but he said
he would not trouble her, he should go by
the " Underground " to Portland Road ; and,
carefully avoiding any further reference to the
object of her expedition, of which she now felt

ashamed, she took leave of him and drove off.
Her pride had risen in full force, and had come
to the aid of her self-possession ; she stopped at
a fancy-shop to buy some wools and silks to show
Miss Gretton as the result of her journey, and,
having taken up Susan, who was incoherently
and explanatory delighted at the dull dissipation
she had been enjoying, she drove back to
Russell Square, where Miss Gretton did indeed
discover the means by which she had got rid of
her escort, but believed that this trick was
merely a freak born of the girl's natural love
of independence.

It was not until a day or two had passed,
and the girl's watch upon herself relaxed, that
the old lady noticed a depression in her spirits,
which Geraldine accounted for by saying that
she believed the air of London did not suit
her ; and she made this an excuse for returning
earlier than she had intended to Waringham,
fearing to excite still more the solicitude of her
watchful old instructress, while that of her less
affectionate guardians at the Hall would, she
knew, not be wakened so easily.

So, on a still and sultry evening in the last

days of July she arrived at Goldborough, and,
the carriage with neither of the Misses Otway
in it being there to meet her, she and her
simple-minded attendant were driven at
funeral pace through the somewhat antiquated
town, where grass grew between the uneven
stones of the less frequented streets, and along
the straight road called the King's Dam, which
led for two miles over the marshes, and up
the long hill bordered by an occasional cluster
or row of cottages, to the bit of lonely road
between hedges which led to the gates of
Warlngham Park. Geraldine was rather
pleased by the unexpected warmth with which
the selfish Miss Eleanor, who had missed her
small attentions and her youthful presence,
welcomed her back ; but the invalid had no
eyes for the changes in other people than
herself, and Geraldine's increased gravity was
as much lost upon her as upon her more frigid
sister. Dinner was over early, and, the evening
being warm and fine, and the girl mad to escape
from the vault and Its ghosts  her own irreverent
private names for the house and Its
mistresses  she went into the o[-arden, and.

being tired, restless, and unhappy, she could
not confine herself to her favourite 'roses
" or the hedged-in monotony of the
grass-walk, but traversed the latter quickly
and dived into the wood at the farther end.
She went on and on along the narrow path,
brushing her way through the tall grass that
grew in summer luxuriance on both sides, and
pushing aside the branches that straggled
forward from the young trees on either hand,
until she reached the outer hedge and the gate
at the end of the path which opened on to the
high-road.

There she stopped, and, with her hand
upon the wooden bars, looked out over the
quiet road at the stretch of sloping fields
beyond and at the low hills in the distance
which bounded the prospect. The sweet peace
of the summer evening gave her no pleasure,
for she was not in the mood to be pleased ;
her eyes moved restlessly over the pretty scene,
her fingers tapped the gate in impatience. She
had been standing there for some minutes
when a man's voice made her start.

'' Lovely view, isn't it, Miss Lindley ? "

Captain Morrison was standing in the road
a few feet from the gate ; she blushed, uneasily
wondering how long he had been watching her.

Lovely ? I don't think so. I'm tired of
the stagnant country. I begin to hate the sight
of a field or a tree."

You used not to speak so ; your visit to
town has spoilt you." He raised his eyes
slowly, with a certain appearance of reserved
shyness usual to him, to her face ; but they
rested there for a moment with a look of
shrewd penetration which impressed her with
a sudden fear that he could read more of her
thoughts than she wished to have known. " It
has made you discontented and unhappy," he
went on boldly.

"You think the gaiety and dissipation of
town have done that?" she asked, failing,
however, to speak as lightly as she wished
to do.

He paused for a moment, during which she
waited for his next words with some uneasiness,

No," he replied at last, in his monotonous
and measured voice, '' I think that sorrow and
disappointment have done so."

What do you mean ? " she broke out
quickly.

That I have guessed, that I am sure an
errand of mercy and kindness took you to town,
and that you made there the bitter discovery
that those feelings were unmerited by the
object of them."

She attempted to speak, in great agitation ;
she wished to laugh at his suggestion and to
show resentment at his boldness ; but she
broke down at the first word, and fell into
passionate silence, her bosom heaving, her eyes
filling with tears. He came forward and laid
his hand on hers, not with dovelike impetuosity,
but firmly and respectfully, as she was
about to turn away from the gate.

I entreat you not to be offended with me
for my boldness. Remember, this is a subject
on which you have shown me some confidence
before. You are not one of those frivolous
girls who allow themselves to be much elated
or depressed about trifles. You have confessed
to the deepest solicitude concerning your
adopted brother "

'' Brother ? " she interrupted proudly. '' I

have no brother, and there is no man In the
world whom I look upon as a brother. Please
don't let us talk about It ; don't say I have
mentioned the subject to you. I will never, If
I can help It, mention his name again."

Then you have satisfied yourself of his
guilt ? You know where he Is hiding ? You
have seen him perhaps ?"

Now, although she stood with lips firmly
closed and made no verbal answer to these
questions, her very attitude was a sufficient
reply to them.

You may think my Interest strange,,
perhaps impertinent," said he ; " but I have
myself suffered in much the same way through
the misconduct of  a member of my own family,
and I can sympathize with every feeling you
have in the matter. But I go farther than you
do. You wish to bury your  disappointment ;
I keep mine alive."

There was a quiet determination about the
little man, as he let these words drop In the
lowest, most monotonous of voices, that made
him seem to her quite terrible.

But that is not right," said she.

He did not answer ; but she Instinctively
knew that no protest, however powerful, would
have the least effect upon his stubborn earnestness.


At least," he remarked presently, his tone
suddenly becoming very gentle, " you believe
that I deeply sympathize with you."

'' I have no need of sympathy, thank you,"
she retorted, rather ungraciously, offended at
the suggestion that the conduct of such a man
as James had proved to be could have any effect
upon her. " I was sorry for my guardian's
nephew when I thought he was accused wrongfully
; but I have no pity for the guilty," she
added, with the inexorable sternness of Inexperience.


But he, the man of thirty-five, looked at her
sceptically ; to him the depth of expression in
her eyes when she was excited, the firm lines
already to be seen about the mouth, were more
eloquent than her impulsive words.

A silly fellow, to forfeit the right to this
pretty place  and  and all the charms it
contains ! " he observed, looking up at the trees.

'' I don't see any charm In it ; I hate the

place ; the house is a tomb ; the very air one
seems to breathe with difficulty ; and the garden
is  haunted," said she, shuddering.

Then why do you stay in it ? You might
certainly find plenty of opportunities to get
away," he responded slowly and significantly.

'* How ? " asked she, not understanding him
in the least.

'' There are plenty of people who would be
only too delighted to rescue you from your
prison, and to surround you with every pleasure
the world can afford."

His tone was so measured, and this insinuation
came upon her so unexpectedly, that
his full meaning did not dawn upon her even
now. It was not until he came a step nearer
and deliberately took her hands in his and held
them so firmly that it was of no use to attempt
to escape, that, with horror which appeared
comically in her face, she found that she was
listening to a proposal of marriage.

'' Only say where you would like to go,
what life you would like to lead, and, if you will
trust your happiness to me, I will deny you no
wish ; I will devote my whole life to making

yours sweet to you. Won't you listen to me ?"
You will never find a man to love you more
than I do."

She did listen, with the liveliest and the
strangest sensation with which a woman ever
heard a love-suit. When she had recovered
from the first shock of astonishment and
absolute fright, it occurred to her, not as in the
case of Reginald Bamber, that her suitor was
incapable of deep devotion, but that he was
using its formulas to express feelings which no
longer animated him, or which, at any rate, were
not inspired by her. Her first impulse was to
reject him at once unconditionally; and her tone
betrayed her intention with her first words 

*' I am very much flattered  I am very
grateful ; but I have no thought of "

He interrupted her with a burst of genuine
earnestness which astonished her more than
ever 

I implore you not to refuse me at once.
I know I have surprised you, you want time for
consideration ; take what time you please  till
tomorrow  till next week ; but don't refuse me
now ; let me at least hope a little longer."

He was eager enough now ; he absolutely
would not let the discouraging words she had
ready pass her lips, but turned the talk at once
into another channel by asking after the two old
ladies. She answered his questions rather
timidly, being unable to recover so quickly as he
from the emotion caused by that strange interlude
; but when at last she prepared to go back
to the house and held out her hand to him, he
retained it while he whispered, his dark eyes
lighting up with eagerness 

'' You will not forget, you will not forget "
And you will not be too cruel ! When shall
I come to receive your answer ? To-morrow ?
May I come here tomorrow evening ? If you
are here at this time tomorrow, I shall know
I may hope."

Before she could protest, with one more
pressure of the hand, one more eloquent lookout
of his great eyes, which had the wistful look
of a dumb animal in moments of pleading, he
retreated so quickly that, when he raised his
hat, he was already too far off for her to give
him a discouraging answer.

VOL. II. 31

CHAPTER VIII.

Geraldine turned and ran back to the house,
too much excited for steady walking. As she
was flying, in the same rather wild manner,
through the hall, Miss Elizabeth met her and
asked what was the matter.

''Oh, nothing," she replied  "at least,
Captain Morrison has  I met him at the gate
of the wood. I've been talking to him."

'' He has proposed to you ? "

'' Why, how did you guess ? "

'* Not a very difficult task when a gentleman
shows such devotion as Captain Morrison has
done."

But I don't think he has ; his offer took
me quite by surprise. I know he has been
here a good deal ; but his talk, his manner,
never suggested even admiration."

*' Well, I suppose you are satisfied on that
point now ? "

I don't know ; I don't think I care."
*' My dear child, I hope you have not been
so foolish as to refuse him ? "

I  I think so. It  it never occurred tome
to accept him. He wants me to consider

it ; but "

She stopped of her own accord. Not until
this moment had it occurred to her that the
matter required consideration. Her hesitation
was enough for the penetrating eyes fixed
upon her.

Unless you dislike him, my dear, it is
worth considering," said she, not too earnestly.
For we know from half a dozen people that he
is unusually well off for a soldier, and has
expectations besides. The admiral can't say
enough about his character too. It Is a matter
entirely for your own judgment, of course,
dear ; but it is certainly a flattering offer."

She let the girl go, afraid of saying too
much on a subject more vitally interesting to
her than it seemed at present to Geraldlne
herself. Now that the much-abused vagrant

was her formally adopted niece, Elizabeth recognized
the advantages of the connection, and
identifying the girl's interests with those of the
family, was eager for her satisfactory establishment.


So Geraldine went up to her own room and
considered it." If Captain Morrison had
made his offer a week before, it would have
been at once rejected ; but it had come just at
the right time, when disgust with a man who
had certainly occupied a large share of her
thoughts had been succeeded by a blank feeling
of sudden aimlessness in her life, and by an
irritable longing to break up the old conditions
of it. And here was the opportunity of doing
so, of leaving the gloomy house which recalled
at every step memories of the two deepest
sorrows of her life, her guardian's death and
James's wickedness  of escaping from the
uncongenial, maddeningly monotonous society
of her adopted aunts  of seeing some of the
beautiful places she longed to see. And all
this with only one drawback, an insignificant
one that quite threatened to be overlooked at
first, as she reckoned up the advantages of the

prospect ; this was the man she would have to
love, honour, and obey for the rest of her life.
Her life  yes, there was something appalling
about that ; but then other girls were continually
promising the same thing, and they
seemed to get on all right. Geraldine was
obliged to look at the subject in this way, from
the outside, because her heart was not touched.
She wondered whether, this being the case, she
ought to allow the matter to enter into her consideration
at all ; but then, after having refused
kind, handsome Reginald Bamber so easily,
she had come to the decision that she was
very cold by nature, and could never expect to
feel the raptures that some girls did in these
cases.

And even the man himself was not in anyway
obnoxious to her ; she was rather afraid of
him, indeed ; but it was with a fear very
different from that inspired by Reginald  the
fear a girl unused to much society naturally
has for a reserved man whom she does not
know very well ; a fear, therefore, which would
probably wear off with marriage. He seemed
more human, too, than Reginald, less invariably

correct In judgment, more prone to passion
and prejudice under all his reserve, and the
report had also reached her that he was a
'devil in action."

Therefore, on the evening after his proposal,
after much nervous hesitation, and even one or
two undecided turns to and from the house,
she at last sauntered into the wood-path with
lagging, lingering feet, and would perhaps
never have reached the gate at the end of
it. If Captain Morrison had not anticipated
her reluctant arrival and trespassed into the
wood to meet her. And that meeting decided
the question. He had prepared some appropriate
eloquence wherewith to turn the balance
of her Indecision ; and she returned to the
house under promise to be his wife.

Elizabeth was delighted. Poor Reginald,
who called next day to tell the news that he
had given up all thought of returning to
America just yet, and had accepted a post In
London less lucrative than that he was to have
held in New York, In order to be less far from
from Warlngham, was visibly affected out of
his usual placidity by the announcement made

by Elizabeth of Geraldlne's engagement. The
girl guiltily avoided a tete-astute with him,
feeling that she had not treated him quite well ;
but it could not be put off for ever, and her
evasion of it made his words the more impressive
on the afternoon when he at last caught
her in the park alone.

She kept the talk to common-places as long
as she could, but some reference to her
engagement was of course inevitable.

'' I hear you are to be married very
soon ? "

*' Yes. Captain Morrison has to go to
Vienna, and he wants me to marry him first."

''Of course. You will find it very hot
there still, won't you ? "

I don't know ; it will be early in September."
A pause. *' I have always longed to
travel."

Another pause ; perhaps he was thinking
rather bitterly of her refusal to travel with him.
They were both becoming fearfully nervous.

You made up your mind very suddenly,
didn't you ? " he asked, with a lugubrious
attempt to speak playfully. 'ewe poor civilians

can't hope to compete with military Impetuosity
; where we humbly and vaguely beg on
our knees, the soldier simply says ' Surrender ! '
and the thing Is done."

'' Captain Morrison didn't ; and no civilian
ever begged anything of me on his knees."

Geraldine," said he  he had always called
her *' Miss Lindley," but now that she was lost
to him he was less punctiliously civil, more
friendly and affectionate  " you know how
earnestly I wished for your happiness. I think
you give me credit for not being wholly
selfish in my motives ; you may indeed.
Captain Morrison is not a friend of mine 
you are ; therefore there is no disloyalty, and,
believe me, there is as little mean jealousy as
I can help, in what I am going to say. Do
not let them hurry you into this marriage ;
insist upon taking your own time, and learn
all you can about your future husband and
his connections ; don't be too proud even to
make Inquiries, to ask questions and sift the
answers."

'' How can I do that ? How can I show
such a want of confidence ? " she asked restlessly,

impressed in spite of herself by his
earnest manner. '' I have accepted him, I have
almost fixed the day ; I cannot ferret out his
history, I cannot draw back now."

He seemed appalled by the swiftness with
which step after step in such an important
matter had been taken, and for a moment his
alarm infected her. She laughed foolishly as
she curled up a leaf of the rose she was carrying
with trembling fingers ; she was on the point
of trying to turn the subject to one less portentous,
when he stopped her by saying, withall
the earnestness in his power 

I cannot say more to you. I frankly own
that I have nothing but suspicion to go upon ;
but it is a suspicion which makes me shudder.
You refused me on the plea that I was ' too
good ' ; pray Heaven you may not have a
different fault to find with the husband you
have chosen ! "

His voice was shaking ; without another
word, he raised his hat and hurried away,
leaving her in a state of agitation which she
had scarcely controlled by the time her lover
arrived. He had met Reginald at the park-gates,

and had not been at all pleased to see
him ; and now, seeing that something was
wrongs with Geraldine, that her manner was
cool and even mistrustful, he put down this
change, with great acumen, to the man whom
he knew to have been his unsuccessful rival.

What has Mr. Bamber been telling you
about me, Geraldine ? " he asked, putting his
hand on her shoulder gently enough, but looking
neither very loving nor very good-tempered.

'' Nothing," she answered, of course, with
a start. She persisted in this statement ; so
Captain Morrison, seeing that he was only
rousing, to no purpose, a dangerous spirit of
resistance, said at last, as if satisfied 

"That's all right, then. I shouldn't have
teased you about this, my darling, if I had not
been told that Mr. Bamber had vowed that,
if you would not have him, at least, if he could
help it, you shouldn't be happy with me."

Oh, Philip, I don't believe he would say
such a things ! " she exclaimed.

But an affianced husband has advantages
and privileges wherewith, if he use them with
discernment, he may destroy a rival's credit ina

girls not wholly unprejudiced mind to the
increase of his own ; and, before he bade farewell
to Geraldine that evening, Philip Morrison
had not only persuaded her to hasten the day
of happiness by a whole week, but had almost
induced her to believe that Reginald Bamber,
in his advice and his warnings, had not been
wholly uninfluenced by an unworthy readiness
to avail himself of some trifling fault or other
which it had come to his knowledge that his
rival or one of his relatives had committed at
some period or other of their lives. This was
the only conclusion she could come to, for she
was too loyal to repeat to her lover the words
or the substance of her friend s warning.

And so, after an engagement of five weeks,
Captain Morrison and Geraldine Lindley were
married, in as private a manner as possible,
in consequence of Sir Charles's death, at the
little church between the park-gates and the
Vicarage. The ceremony was performed by
old Mr. Cox of Copsley ; no one was present
except old Mr. Bamber and Mrs. Bamber, Mr.
Meadows, who assisted in the service, the
parish clerk, Mr. and Mrs. Corbyn, and the

whole of the Warlngham household. Miss
Gretton was not well enough to come ; but she
sent a lugubrious present of Young's " Night
Thoughts," beautifully bound, and a pair of jet
bracelets.

Then at the Hall there was a rather solemn
luncheon, with Mr. and Mrs. Bamber as the
only guests. Geraldine was very silent, and
seemed to be only just awakening to a sense
of the seriousness of the step she had taken ;
but she was far too highly strung up to cry.
The only two persons who wept much were
Miss Eleanor and Mrs. Symes, the latter of
whom, oppressed by the sight of a wedding
shorn of its proper festivities, made the unhappy
remark that " it upset her more than poor dear
Sir Charles's funeral that it did ! " But she
recovered sufficiently to throw a pound or so
of rice, in a weak and wavering way, in at the
window of the barouche as it started on its way
to Goldborough station ; and she considered
it a lucky omen that some of it went into the
bridegroom's eyes ; but he did not see it in the
same light, and gave way under his breath to
a bad military habit as he looked sharply out

of the window and met her Inane smile of
satisfaction ; and this omen was not so good.

Geraldine was not superstitious ; moreover,
she was glad to leave the gloomy old house
which had been her home for the last four
months ; but, when her husband suddenly
started up in the carriage, declaring that he
had lost a locket which was more precious to
him than life, and eager to turn back to hunt
for it, and when she picked up from the floor
of the carriage a little shield-shaped medallion,
which had opened in the fall, showing the
portrait of a young and beautiful woman,
Reginald Bamber's despised warning flashed
across her mind, and she wondered, with a
shiver of dread, whether there might not be
worse trials In store for her than the endurance
of sad memories In the peaceful, If monotonous,
shelter of Waringham Hall.

Chapter IX.

The newly-married pair were to be away two
or three months, traveling about, spending
some time in Vienna, Paris, and probably a few
weeks at Nice or Mentioned towards the end
of the year. They had not yet decided on
their future place of residence ; but Captain
Morrison had made the proposal that, as he
should certainly have to return to England from
time to time for a day or two on business, he
should appoint an agent to look out for him,
should inspect, during his short visits, the houses
likely to suit him, and, having chosen one,
should give orders for it to be furnished and
got ready for his final home-coming with his
wife at the end of the year.

But they had scarcely been a month away,
when, in the first days of October, having

received one or two short and uninteresting
letters from the bride in the course of the
honeymoon, Miss Elizabeth was startled by
the receipt of a telegram sent by Captain
Morrison, stating that he and his wife were on
the way to England, and that they were coming
straight to Waringham Hall. Preparations
were hastily made ; the room which had been
Sir Charles's was got ready for them, the ladies
and the housekeeper put on gowns of state,
the barouche was sent to meet every train as
soon as it was possible for them to arrive.
They came by the express which, leaving
Liverpool Street at five in the afternoon,
reached Goldborough at twenty-three minutes
past eight.

It was dark when Jo, the gardener's boy,
stationed at the lodge to give notice of the
arrival of the travellers, ran panting up to the
garden to give the news to the servants waiting
about there, who passed it on to those indoors,
till Johnson announced to the ladies in the
drawing-room that Captain and Mrs. Morrison
were driving through the park. There was
intense excitement in all the household. Every

rheumatic old servant seemed galvanized into
activity ; the gardener, the under-gardener, and
Jo made as imposing a display as they could
of themselves at the entrance of the garden ;
the servants were drawn up in a line in the
outer hall, which was decked with evergreens
and the best of the camellias, brought in from
the conservatory and disposed with as much
effect as possible round the hall stove. When
the barouche stopped at the entrance, Johnson
was already smiling in his blandest manner at
the wide-open door, Miss Eleanor and Miss
Elizabeth were in sight, ready with an effusive
welcome.

Geraldine came in quickly, with flushed face
and glittering eyes, and with subdued excitement
in her manner which strengthened
Elizabeth's acute suspicion that something was
wrong. No one else noticed this. Every
member of the household, from Eleanor to the
lowest kitchen maid, was impressed by an alteration
in " Miss Geraldine " which in their eyes
was all improvement ; it was typified by the
change from the simple travelling-dress in which
she had started on her bridal tour to one no

less simple Indeed, but with the artistic simplicity
of Worth replacing the more modest simplicity
of the GoldborouQh dressmaker. Her husband
was honoured with very little of the general
attention. Again no one but Elizabeth noticed
that, while even more taciturn than usual at
dinner, which was served immediately, his
manner was restless and absent, and he was
so nervous that he started like a delicate woman
at any unexpected sound. Geraldine made up
for her husband s silence by an unfailing stream
of bright chatter about the places and people
she had seen, which delighted and amused the
old ladles, who seldom heard so much of the
outer world.

After dinner she sang them an Italian
peasant's song she had learned, and played
them some new waltzes. Then It was that she
proposed to them an arrangement which was
all they desired, and which Miss Elizabeth had
hinted at before the wedding. It was that
Captain Morrison should rent the Hall from the
trustees, make what Improvements he pleased,
and so restore Its ancient prestige.

*' My dear Geraldine, I think nothing could
VOL. II. 32

be better ! " agreed Elizabeth, with sparkling
eyes. " I long to see a little life and youth
about the place again."

Oh, we shan't be very gay ! " said Geraldine,
laughing nervously, and glancing rather
furtively at her husband. '* We have had
enough gaiety for the present, and shall be
quiet enough. Things will go on around you
much as usual."

Then you will not mind our remaining ?
We could take a small place near, you know, if
we were likely to be in your way."

But you are not, you are not ; we want
you to stay ; don't you understand ? " cried
Geraldine, impatiently.

After the excitement of travel and the
exertion she had made since her arrival to
be bright and lively, she was getting quite
feverish. At last, when the clock had struck
eleven, an hour long past the usual time for
the old ladies to retire, and they were both
o-rowlng so sleepy that It was impossible for
her to detain them any longer, she crossed the
room with Miss Elizabeth, and, holding her
back as the elder passed out, she said, in a low

voice, with a nervous glance at her husband,
who had returned to his armchair after Lighting
their candles for them 

What made you put us in that room ? It
makes me nervous ; I shall not be able to sleep
there."

Well, my dear, it Is the largest and most
comfortable room upstairs. But, of course, If
you and Captain Morrison  Philip  don't like
it "

'' He won't mind, I dare say," she interrupted,
with a shrug of her shoulders.
"Couldn't you let me sleep with you, just for
to-night ? "

'' My dear, the servants would think It so
strange ! " urged Elizabeth, shocked.

Oh, very well ! " she said uncertainly, still
with her hand upon the handle of the door, In
front of the elder lady. The partition between
the larger and the smaller drawing-rooms, which
had once been divided by folding-doors, kept
her out of sight of her husband. Elizabeth's
penetrating look seemed to demand an explanation.
'' Philip has had bad news of some kind
or other, I think ; at least he decided very

suddenly to come back to England, and said it
was ' business ; ' and since then he has been sa
dreadfully nervous and restless, he infects me
with it ; and we are both always jumping and
starting like a pair of marionettes," said she,,
laughing almost hysterically.

But, my dear Geraldine, he is your
husband ; surely your presence soothes him
and it is the duty of a wife "

To keep out of her husband's way when-her
presence only irritates him and his irritates
her. However, I dare say we shall work
better in double harness before long ! " she
added, with an effort at brightness which
sounded painfully flippant to the scandalized
maiden lady.

My dear, I really think you are too hard
upon a husband who seems to try to please you
in every way," said she, in a whisper, feeling
bound to deliver some sort of lecture, now that
the young wife's undutiful talk had frightened
away her sleepiness. ''He is certainly rather
taciturn ; but he seems to have taken you
everywhere and given you everything you
wanted."

'' Yes, because he likes excitement, and is
too proud not to have his wife well-dressed."

"Well, well, so much the better for you!
Then he takes the deepest interest in your
family ; only this evening he asked in the most
solicitous manner if we had had any tidings of
poor James."

She stopped, appalled. Geraldine's face had
suddenly become convulsed with terror as she
seized the elder lady's hands, trying to speak,
but failing at first through the dryness of her
mouth. Between them they dropped the candle,
and, as the younger picked it up. Captain
morrison appeared from behind the partition.

"What are you hissing and whispering
about, Geraldine ? " he asked irritably. " You
can come into the room If you have anything
to say, can't you, Instead of keeping Miss
Elizabeth in the draught ? "

It was the first complaining speech he had
made to his wife that evening ; but then, too,
it was almost the first time he had addressed
her. She answered with meekness which
always marked her bearing towards him, but
which did not seem to please him 

I have nothing more to say, Philip ;
I was only talking about the room upstairs."

He shot at her a furtive glance of suspicion,
and remained with her at the door while
Elizabeth, with another good-night kiss, followed
her sister upstairs.

Now Miss Elizabeth Otway was by no
means a nervous woman, nor one prone to make
a mountain of dread of a mole-hill of doubt ;
nevertheless, the results of her observation of
the newly-married pair that evening, and of
that short colloquy with the young wife, were
not only to cause her to look forward with
some anxiety to the future, but also to send her
to her room with an uncomfortable feeling that
some sort of immediate danger hung over the
present. There was a sharp turn In the corridor
between her room and that which had been
prepared for the young couple. She heard ina
few minutes the soft shutting of the door, and
guessed that Geraldine had come upstairs ; and
soon after she heard footsteps and the dressing-room
door shut, and it was plain that Captain
Morrison had come up too ; and present
she fancied she heard the sounds of voices,

and, though her ears were very keen, it was
plain that either her imagination led her away,
or they must be talking very excitedly to be
heard at all at this distance. She sat down as
usual to read her '* Bogatsky " and the evening-lessons
; and, while still so engaged, she raised
her head sharply, convinced at last that the one
high note which pierced the night-silence was
either a woman's scream or some passionately-spoken
word in an outbreak of a woman's fierce
excitement. She crossed her room quickly,
book in hand, unlocked her door, and listened.
In a few moments she heard murmurs, now
soft, now loud, undistinguishable always ; then
the man's voice rising higher, some sound
louder still, which made Elizabeth start forward
with clenched hand ; then the door-handle
rattled, and, as the door was flung open, she
clearly heard Captain Morrison's voice saying,
not loudly, but in sharp, distinct tones 

'for Heaven's sake, stay here; I won't
hurt you ; I won't frighten you. Don't go
and alarm the house."

Let me go, or I'll cry out ! " hissed Geraldine.


And the next moment a flying figure
appeared at the turn of the corridor, and
Elizabeth, coming out of her room and whispering,
" What is it  what Is it ? " received
the panting woman in her arms.

Sh  don't cry out ; come in here ! " she
said, drew Geraldlne into her own room, and
locked the door.

She would not let her speak at once, but,
placing her in the armchair from which she
herself had just risen, she bathed her damp
and ghastly face with eau-de-cologne. For
Geraldine seemed on the point of fainting ; her
white skin had no trace of colour ; her quivering
lips were parted, and her dark eyes were fixed
vacantly in front of her, as she leant back in
the chair, with waxen hands hanging limply
down, and submitted inertly to the elder lady's
ministrations.

'' Did he strike you ? " asked Elizabeth, ina
whisper, when at last Geraldlne said mechanically,
" Thank you," and raised her head
from the back of the chair.

Oh, no  worse, worse  much worse ! "

My dear Geraldine, what did he do ? Tell

me quickly, for Heaven's sake ! " And her fancy
flew to Desdemona and tales of midnight
murder.

She shook her head and sat up, while
Elizabeth was reassured but still more puzzled
by noticing that her pale pink cashmere
dressing-gown, with its frills and folds of lace,
showed no traces of rough handling, and her
chestnut hair, hanging down in two plaits,
little sign of disorder. Geraldine began to
laugh hysterically as she suffered this inspection.


''Oh, Tm not hurt  at least, I have no
bruises or broken bones ! " Then, as Elizabeth
drew herself up stiffly, as if feeling that she
had been tricked, she added  '' I have only
found out what I have suspected for the last
ten days  what the man is that I have married."

'what he is!"

Yes ; I have found out why the little
show of affection he made me before marriage
has disappeared so quickly, why he evidently
had but one object in my society, why our
honeymoon was spent in erratic rushes from
one place to another, and backwards and

forwards between them." She looked up at
Miss Elizabeth, and paused. These two had
never really been friends. The younger could
never forget the cruelty with which she had
been received on her first visit to Warineham
Hall ; the elder still treasured up the memory
of the wrong which Sir Charles's caprice had
done to herself and her sister. A moment of
terror had made the one kind, the other
confiding ; but already sympathy had given
place in the face of the elder lady to hard,
eager curiosity ; already a spirit of caution led
the younger to measure her words. "He is
mad ! " she ended briefly.

At that moment there was a knock at the
door, and Captain Morrison's voice called
softly 

Geraldine ! "

She started, but did not answer.

'' I will speak to him; I'm not afraid," said
Elizabeth ; and, arming herself with the biggest
book of devotion which lay on the chest of
drawers, she unlocked and cautiously opened
the door. He looked as sane as a man can,
more composed than he had been all the

evening ; the most imaginative person could
have discovered no sign of frenzy in face, voice,
or manner. If he had been mad, the paroxysm
was over. He looked naturally somewhat
annoyed at the errand which brought him ;
but even his annoyance was well under control.

I am very sorry to disturb you at this
time of night. Miss Elizabeth, but I think I
heard my wife's voice."

Yes, she is in here."

*' Will you ask her to come and speak tome
? Tell her I don't want to hurt her, as she
seems  the Lord knows why  to imagine, and
that I hope to goodness she doesn't want to
make another scene. If the servants should get
wind of this midnight amusement of coursing
through the passage and playing hide-and-seek
in other people's rooms, we shall never hear the
end of it."

This he said in a low, distinct voice, all for
the benefit of his wife, whom he could not see.
Elizabeth, who was no coward, ashamed of her
weapon, let her book of devotions slide down
upon the floor.

She seems to be afraid of you," she

observed dryly, annoyed with the young wife
for this escapade.

** Yes, I haven't the least notion why ; I
believe Sir Charles's room made her nervous.
she had better sleep with you to-night, I think,
if you will let her ; but I must speak to her
first. Here, you may tie my hands together,
if she is afraid of me," he added, with a lookup
at ]\Iiss Elizabeth and a backward nod of
the head as much as to say, " Did you ever
hear such nonsense?"  which had the desired
effect of enlisting the valiant elderly lady on
his side, in disgust at the young wife's fanciful
terrors.

Geraldine," she called in a cold voice,
turning to the chair in which the frightened
woman sat, listening intently with wide eyes
and parted lips, " Philip is here. He wishes
to speak to you."

She rose obediently and came slowly to the
door.

Come out here. I must speak to you ;
I won't touch you."

For one moment she hesitated, her bosom
heaving, her face eloquent  not with fear, but

disgust ; then, glancing at Elizabeth's hard,
unsympathetic face, she saw there was no help
for it, and went out into the corridor.

What have you told her ? "

'' Nothing at least not all."

** What are you going to tell her ? "

Nothing more."

*' There's a sensible woman ! " in a tone of
oreat relief.

'' But it shall be told. Every one shall
know. I will get freed from you," she hissed
out in the whisper she was bound to maintain,
but boldly and fiercely.

That's rioht ! Nothing could serve me
better ! It is the first time you have shown meany
spirit," said he coolly.

She was too angry to answer. If her spirit
had slumbered till this moment, it was awake
now ; and the steady look of hatred she gave
him in the feeble light of the candle over which
he was blinking would have assured a less
careless observer that in her dealings with him
she would never lack it again. So she returned
abruptly to Elizabeth's room, and, wishing that
lady good night, made her way to one of the

spare rooms which was always ready for use ;
while Captain Morrison, after exchanging a
few remarks and shrugs with Elizabeth upon
young ladies' caprices, sauntered slowly back
to his room.

Next morning, at breakfast, nothing seemed
wrong, except that Geraldine, who was again
very talkative and lively, was ghastly pale.
She passed the morning quietly in unpacking
her trunks, and in showing her husband's
presents and her own purchases, which were
numerous and costly enough to have reconciled
most young ladies to the galling chain of
matrimony, to her adopted aunts. Captain
Morrison remained until luncheon-time in the
library, writing letters. At that meal,
Geraldine's spirits rose to such an hysterical
height that her husband suggested that she
would be tired out long before the day was
over if she did not lie down and rest as soon
as they left the table ; and, with the meekness
with which she invariably took every hint of
his, she went upstairs as soon as they left the
dining-room.

But half an hour later Miss Eleanor, who

was slowly going upstairs, met Geraldlne coming
down in walking-dress.

'' Where are you going, dear ? I wanted
you to come and read to me ; but I did not
like to ask, as I thought you were going to lie
down."

'' I am going into the grass-walk. Aunt
Eleanor. I think that will do my head more
good than lying down."

'' Oh, I didn't know you had a headache,
dear ! Come to my room, and I will give you
some of the mixture Mr. Crosse gave me, that
always does my head so much good."

'thank you. I  I mustn't come now.
I  the fact is, I don't want Philip to see I am
disobeying him."

And, stooping to kiss the little withered
face very tenderly, and dropping a tear as she
did so on the shawl of her astonished aunt, she
ran downstairs past her, through the halls,
opened and shut the front door very softly,
and, sauntering through the rose-corner with
feet which would go fast in spite of her, she
got into the grass-walk ; and there, secure from
view between the tall hedges, she ran as if for

life, and then tore her way through the wood-path
to that gate of evil memory where Philip
Morrison had proposed to her. She shuddered
with disgust at her own weakness as she passed
through it, and found herself fairly started on
her dangerous walk. For there was only one
road by which she could reach Goldborough ;
and her husband, about whose arrangements
for the afternoon she had not dared to ask,
might take it into his head to ride or drive
into the town ; and, if he should overtake her
when she was crossing the marsh, there was no
hope of her being able to hide from him. It
was about three miles from Waringham Hall
to Goldborough station, which lay at the bottom
of a hill on the other side of the town. The
London train she wanted to catch left Gold-borough
at 4.31, arriving at Liverpool Street
exactly at eight. It was now very little past
three, and she had therefore plenty of time ;
but she was far too nervous to be able to realize
that and to plod steadily on in an unsuspicious
manner. The faintest sound of hoofs or wheels
in the distance behind her made her turn and
look anxiously back ; every five minutes she

would pull out her watch, and reckon how much
time she had to spare. She had, besides her
husband, her acquaintances to fear. If she were
to meet any one who was at all intimate either
with her or the Otwayss, she would certainly be
detained, and made to give an explanation of
this lonely walk on the very day after her return
from her wedding-tour ; worse than that, she
might meet some one who had not heard of
her return.

She was fortunate, however. She saw a
carriage she knew in advance of her, and
loitered until it was a long way off; and, at
a point where her road was crossed by another,
she saw a gentleman on horseback riding away
from her, whom she believed to be Reginald
Bamber ; but she did not see him turn round.
The long, open, willow-bordered road over the
marsh she crossed in safety, but in deadly fear,
uttered a thanksgiving as she reached the
outskirts of the town, crossed the bridge by
the timber-yard, toiled up the long hill to the
market-place, and almost ran down the gradual
decline which led to the station. Thank
Heaven, she was in time ! She had to wait

VOL. II. 33

a quarter of an hour before the ticket-office would
be open, and this time she spent, in suspense
which seemed to hold her breath, In the wretched
country waiting-room. When at last she had
taken her ticket and hurried out on to the platform
to watch for the train, she felt that the
worst was already over, and her heart gave a
bound of triumph. At the very moment of this
premature elation, a voice behind her saying,
'welcome to Norfolk, Mrs. Morrison!" caused
her to give a start which proclaimed her guilt,
even before she turned and, with a face from
which the flush of excitement had suddenly
died out, shook hands with Reginald Bamber.

He was perfectly sweet, perfectly calm as
usual  seemed to see nothing extraordinary
in the most awkward and spasmodic greeting
that any woman but a raw school-girl ever
offered a man. He held In his hand a couple
of London papers as the ostensible reason of
his coming to the station ; but neither his
manner nor his ostentatious Standard and
Wojdd deceived her. She knew that he had
seen, watched, and followed her, and her spirit
rose in arms against him for his impertinence.

'' I heard that you were expected yesterday ;
but I did not hope to have the pleasure of
meeting you so soon  and here too ! "

I came to get a paper ; I hope you haven't
bought them all up, Mr. Bamber," said she,
recovering herself.

'' No, not quite. Which shall I get for
you ? " he asked, picking up her ticket, which
she had dropped, and handing it to her, still
without the least surprise.

But her coolness could not stand such a
test ; she took the ticket with trembling fingers
and thanked him, without meeting his eyes.

'' I am afraid you have done too much
travelling about," he remarked, just in the same
tone, but in a rather lower voice. " You don't
look so well as when you left Waringham,
Mrs. Morrison."

Yes, we went to too many places and saw
too many things," she answered quickly ; " and,
when we were in Paris, we were at the theatre
every night."

''Ah, and all that tells! But of course,
in Paris and on a honeymoon, it is difficult
,to be moderate in enjoyment."

Her face broke up as she gave him a glance
which moved him out of his tranquillity.

Enjoyment ! " she sobbed, with the long-withheld
tears rolling down her cheeks.

Come Into the station," said he, in exactly'
the same soft voice as usual ; and he led the
way Into the empty waiting-room in such an
unmoved, sauntering fashion that It attracted
no remark, and Geraldine's tears, falling fast
beneath her veil, also escaped notice, as he
continued to talk commonplaces about overfatigue
and modern facilities for travel, till they
stood alone In the dusty room.

Don't cry," he said kindly, taking out his
pocket-knife and cutting the World. "If any
Waringham people were to come in they would
think it so odd."

'' I don't care what Waringham people
think ! " flashed out Geraldine, the very suggestion
that she could care for such a trifle causing
the tears to cease. '' I don't care If every
cottager In Waringham were to be on the
platform to see me cry my eyes out as I go off,
for I shall never see them again."

'' But there are other people to be considered.

besides the cottagers. You haven't married
the cottagers, you know," continued Reginald,
still cutting his paper.

What are you trying to find out, Mr.
Bamber ? " she asked coldly.

*' Why you are running away, of course,
INIrs. Morrison."

She stopped his pen-knife Impatiently and
made him meet her eyes ; but his own were as
calm and as kind as usual.

'why do you pretend you don't know,
when all the time you do know ? And why
do you try to stop me now  for you are trying
to stop me, though you shall not succeed  when
it was your duty to have saved me before, not
by giving me a vague warning which no girl
could take, but by telling me the whole truth ? "

I did tell you all I knew  all I know now."

She paused and looked penetratingly at him.

'' And that is "

'' That he is a fanatic, a man with one Idea,
and therefore not likely to make any woman
happy."

You did not know what that Idea was 
you could not, or you would have told me.

You cannot have known either why he married!
me."

I didn't think that wanted an explanation,"
said he simply.

"If you had known his reason, you would
not have believed it ; it was too monstrous  -
too horrible ! He Is not a man ; he Is a demon !"

Reginald looked at her in rising alarm ; he
was not so much afraid of some terrible disclosure
as afraid that she was losing her wits.

What would you say to a man who had
devoted his life to hounding another man down,
who had deliberately chosen for himself as a
pursuit, as a pastime, the office of blood-hound,
to display his ingenuity and his keenness where
professional detectives had failed ; who began
his self-appointed task by sneaking down to
the neighbourhood of the home of the man he
was hunting, worming himself Into the confidence
of the man's friends, trying to ferret out
from them the poor wretch's hiding-place ?
What would you say, If, failing In this, this spy,
having found out that the information he wanted
was In the hands of a girl who could not be
cajoled into giving It up, had made up his

mind to marry her, In the certainty that, with
the authority which only marriage gives, he
could sooner or later wrench the secret from
her ? "

Reginald was startled at last, but it Alas into
utter incredulity.

Listen, listen ! What I am telling you is
true. What would you say, if the newly-married
bride, from her husband's coldness and from the
persistency with which he kept to one subject,
had her suspicions roused, and found that on
this, her very wedding-tour, her husband was
following the track of this man, a man whom
she had loved as if he had been her own
brother ? What would you say to that ? What
would you say ? "

*why, that it was impossible  that there
was some strange mistake somewhere ! "

But It is not impossible  It Is true," she
averred, falling from eager volubility Into
impressive, slow earnestness. '' When I heard
here and there, on our tour, the name of Sir
James Otway, when I found that the man I
had married could find interest with me in no
other subject, I began to think, I began to

watch ; and, when I found that, as soon as
Captain Morrison learnt that Sir James had
returned to England, he found that ' business '
called him back, I felt sure ; and last night 
think what a home-coming for a newly-married
wife !  he was tired and angry at my changed
manner, and, I suppose, off his guard, for, when
I accused him quite unexpectedly, the very
manner In which he met my words betrayed
him, and he swore to my face that the law
should never claim James Otway, that he would
never rest till he had tracked him down and 
and killed him like a dog ! "

Her voice was going, her last words were
hoarsely and feebly spoken ; but the fire In her
eyes was not that of Insanity ; and, when she
had finished, she waited, with dead calmness
after her passionate outburst, for his answer.

The London train had come and gone, two
or three passengers had rushed Into the room
and out again while she poured forth her story ;
she had not heeded, but he had ; and he had
stood before her that she might not be seen
and recognized as she looked steadily up at him
with her passion-lit eyes, her face distorted with

burning excitement. When she at last paused,
he was as calm as ever ; but he looked very,
-very grave.

Did he tell you his reason ? "

'' No."

'' Did you ask it ? "

*' No. He is a human tiger, hungry for
other men's lives, and "

*' But he must have some reason at least
for wanting this particular man's life first."

'* I don't believe he has. He knows that
the police are after James, and, as they can't
find him, he wants to show that he is cleverer
than they are ! "

It was the first time she had been rational
enough to admit James's guilt ; but he took no
apparent notice of that.

'' That isn't reason enough for an English
gentleman "

Gentleman ! "

'* Yes, Captain Morrison is a gentleman ;
and, if he really is possessed with this strange
idea, he must either have, or think he has, the
very strongest of motives, or, what is more
likely, his head must be affected. Do you

know whether he ever received a wound in the
head?"

Not that I have ever heard of. And you
said just now he was fanatical ? "

'' Yes ; but I did not mean that he would
carry fanaticism as far as murder. What first
roused your suspicions ? "

'' When we were at Nice, I found that Sir
James and Lady Otway "

She hesitated and blushed, as Reginald's
attention instantly became more acute.

'' Go on, go on ! "

'' I found that Sir James Otway had been
staying at our hotel ; then, when we got to
Mentioned, I found that he had been "

'' I beg your pardon. You said before,
And Lady Otway.' "

Yes ; but she was not really his wife ; I
had found that out already," answered Geraldine,
blushing again.

'' Do you know her name } "

'' Mrs. Farquhar."

Reginald considered ; presently he remarked


I think I can undertake to find you a

reason now ; and, though I cannot promise
that the discovery will be an unmixed relief to
you, it will at least prove, I think, that your
husband is not inhuman, but too human. It is
getting dark now ; you had better let me drive
you back to Waringham."

She started away from him.

He continued quietly 

'the 4.31 has gone, the next train to
London is not till 6.17. You would have to
wait more than an hour and a half"

*' Then I will wait. I will never go back
to Waringham."

May I ask where you think of going ? "

'* I shall go to some hotel in London ; I
have plenty of money with me, and a cheque-book.
And I shall go to the place where I
know James is or was, and warn him."

'allow me to say that is the most fatal
thing you could do for yourself and him. Even
putting aside the uncomfortable position in
which, in the circumstances you have admitted,
you Avould put yourself, nothing can be easier
than for your husband to track you, who are
not accomplished in the art of dodging detectives,

and so to reach him, If indeed you know where
he is, without further trouble."

Geraldine shuddered.

'' What am I to do ? " she asked earnestly,
conquering a strong inclination to sit down and
cry helplessly.

You are to let me drive you back to the
Hall." She instantly drew herself up in indignant
protest. '' Any other course is ruin to
you all. How can you prevent your husband
from carrying out his designs, if you cannot
watch him and defeat them as they are formed ?"

'' And play the spy in my turn ? " she
faltered. It was a strong and well-urged
argument nevertheless.

You will not have much to do in that way.
If you will trust me with the name of the place
where James lives, I will myself try to hunt
him out and warn him, on condition  I must
make this condition, that you will not only
remain under the same roof with your husband,
but will honestly try to believe what, I assure
you, you may count upon as true  that there is
too much manliness, too much loyalty, in a man
who has served his country with as much

distinction as Captain Morrison has, for him
to be capable of forming such a horrible design
I must call it that  without motives the
strength of which calmer men can scarcely
measure. Now will you try to do this ? "

She was shaken, shattered by all she had
gone through lately, and by the culminating
excitement of this afternoon. She looked up
at him despairingly, waveringly. He saw his
advantage, and, speaking soothing words to hers
he led her out and helped her into the Norfolk
cart in which, six months ago, he had first
taken her to Waringham. The sight of it unhinged
her still more ; but he would not let her
talk ; he drove fast up the sloping hill, rather
anxious about the way in which Geraldine
would satisfactorily account for this escapade.

'' When did you see me ? I know you did
see me," she asked, when she had fought for
control of herself. " I thought, as I came,
I saw you on horseback, with your back tome."
So you did," said he quietly. '' I saw you,
long before you saw me, and I turned up that
road so that you might think I hadn't. I knew
something was wrong by the furtive way In

which you were hurrying along  the most
suspicious walk I ever saw, by-the-by  and by
the mere fact of your being out alone to-day."

But I thought you were short-sighted ? "

Never mind ; I saw you," he went on
tranquilly. " So I rode into Goldborough after
you, guessing where you had gone, you see ;
and made an exchange with my father, who was
at the Library. I gave him the cob to ride
home, and he handed over the cart to me."

It was getting dusk as they approached
Waringham, and poor Geraldine began to
shudder and sigh at the prospect before her.

'' I am so frightened," she said in a whisper.
And, if I cry, it will be worse than ever forme
; he is always complaining of my want of
spirit."

'' Is he ? Then why don't you show him a
little ? I'm sure you have plenty. You used
to treat me in a very spirited manner."

Don't ! " she cried, drawing a sharp breath.
'' It is very difficult to be spirited to a person
you don't like, and yet are bound to obey. He
likes dashing women," she added, after a
pause.

'' Then be dashing ; make him Hke you, and
persuade him to forgive James. Many women
with less advantages than you have done as
much."

She looked at him in astonishment.

Oh, I couldn't, I couldn't  I hate him
so ! "

I thought you owed so much to James you
would do anything to serve him ? "

'' Yes, yes, I know ; but one can't do
impossibilities."

But she was thinking it over ; and Reginald,
who had made the proposal, not for James's
sake, but for the sake of her own happiness,
saw that the bait was taking. At the lodge-gates
he set her down. As she held his hand
to say '' Good-bye," she suddenly realized what
he was doing for her ; she had simply told him
Enfield " as a guide to finding James, and
then she said 

Good-bye ; I can't thank you. How good
you are ! "

Too good, you know ! '' he reminded her
in the same gentle voice as ever ; and it was
only from a slight quivering of the muscles of

his face as he raised his hat to her that she
guessed that he might perhaps have had feelings
of his own to control while listening to the
recital of her troubles.

She hurried through the park with a fast-beating
heart, Intent on a resolve so bold that
It braced her flagging spirits and restored
animation to her tired frame. She rang the
bell sharply, and, passing, with head In air, the
exclaiming and frightened butler, she faced her
husband, who was standing, with the blackest
frown she had ever seen on his face. In the hall
to meet her.

CHAPTER X.

It was a critical moment for Geraldine when,
returning home after her wild attempt at flight,
she found herself face to face with her husband.
He was standing ready to meet her in the
outer hall, his dark face lowering with anger ;
his figure was so erect, his attitude so menacing,
that increased stature could scarcely
have given him more dignity or have inspired
greater terror in his truant wife.

For a moment her spirit failed her, and she
was on the point of making dutiful submission,
as she had done to him before with such irritating
effect, when, by good or ill fortune, he
addressed her in a tone so arrogant that she
was roused instantly to defiance without any
further effort. He only waited until Johnson
had disappeared before he said 

VOL. II. 34

Well, what account have you to give of
yourself ? "

She was in front of him, flushed and trembling
; but at these words she suddenly raised
her head, and, looking down at him through
her eyelashes from the advantage in stature
which her high-heeled boots gave her, she
replied simply 

I have none." And with an appearance
of coolness and self-possession which the rapid
beating of her heart belied, she left him and
walked leisurely towards the staircase.

For a few moments Captain Morrison stood
still, overcome with surprise ; but before she
had ascended three steps he hastened after her,
and, conscious of the importance of position,
passed her on the staircase, and faced her from
an eminence of a couple of steps above her.
She stopped, with her hand on the banisters,
but did not look up.

'' Am I to understand, madam," he began
impressively, 'that you decHne to give an
explanation of your extraordinary conduct this
afternoon ? "

'ras long as you demand it in that 'stand

and deliver' fashion, I do distinctly decline to
give it. When you choose to ask in a different
manner, I may perhaps furnish you with the
information you require."

And she raised her head and looked at him
with a defiant haughtiness which was not unbecoming,
while the slow emphasis with which
she rolled out the dignified words she had
instinctively chosen seemed to imply that she
found some pleasant zest in this new and
dangerous game. Captain Morrison was nota
man with a particularly strong sense of
humour, but he was much amused, and he took
care not to hide his amusement ; he leaned
against the banisters and stroked his moustache
in open enjoyment of her heroics, and, with a
lazy look of critical admiration of the beauty
of her face under this new aspect which disgusted
and maddened her.

Let me pass, if you please," she cried, with
suppressed fury.

'certainly, madam. Will you honour me
with a kiss first."

'' No," she promptly answered, her eyes
meeting his with a look of unrepressed loathing
which stung him.

She had the satisfaction of seeing the look
of indolent pleasure in his eyes give place to a
flash of anger. He did not attempt to take
what he had asked for so unexpectedly, but,
with a shrug of the shoulders and a contemptuous
jerk of the head, he walked downstairs as
she continued her way up. He went to the
library, uttering a gruff monosyllabic laugh
from time to time as he walked. When her
absence had been discovered that afternoon he
had been uneasy, as, in spite of the exasperating
docility she had always shown to him, it
occurred to him that after the scene of the night
before she might have plucked up enough
spirit to leave him. Such a step would have
affected him very little but for the fact that the
object of his marriage with her was not yet
attained. Now that she had come back, he did
not much care how she had employed her time
away. He opened the library door so that he
might hear her come down ; but his anxiety to
see her again arose not so much from a fear
that she had been plotting, or from jealousy,
as from curiosity to see whether this unaccustomed
attitude of amusing defiance would

be maintained. He was not a good judge of
feminine character, and he had never made the
slightest attempt to study that of his wife. He
divided women into two classes  pretty women
who were more or less vain and silly, and were
to be kissed and indulged, and plain women,
who were sensible and good-tempered, and
therefore to be tolerated and respected. Differences
of temper he admitted, differences of
taste he doubted ; but that feminine beauty and
intelligence were found in inverse proportion he
considered to be a fact beyond dispute.

Geraldine did not come down. After a
while, hearing sounds of voices and footsteps
on the floor above, he went out, listened at the
bottom of the staircase, and heard the voices of
his wife and Mrs. Symes giving orders to some
of the servants. He could hear the former
directing her maid to take her gowns and her
trunks out of the room in which they had been
put, and to be careful as she carried them along
the corridor.

That's cool ! " he muttered ; then in an
authoritative tone, he called out  " Geraldine
! "

She came slowly to the banisters on the
landing, looked over, and asked coldly 

'' Did you call me ? "

Yes ; come down here. I want to speak
to you."

He doubted whether she would obey him ;
but she came at once, very slowly, very deliberately,
giving a last injunction to Aurelius
to be sure that a handsome gown of lavender
brocade and gauze, which was piled up in the
maid's arms, was not caught by the door-handles
as it was carried along the corridor.

'' What are you doing up there ? " he asked,
when at last she reached the bottom stair after
an insolently slow descent, during which he
had again watched her, not without admiration.


I am having my things taken out of your
room."

'you should have consulted me first."

She shrieked her shoulders without looking
at him.

"After last night's scene, it was quite evident
that you were not more likely to pine for
my society than I for yours."

He Stood looking at her, pulling his
moustache rather savagely.

*' Will you have the kindness to look at me
when you are addressing me ? The incivility
of your speeches I can overlook, but I will not
have them flung at me as if I were a servant."

With serene audacity she turned her head
and returned his look with chilling steadiness.
Her coldness amazed him and pained him
more than she, who understood him as little ashe
did her, could have believed possible. He
was passionate and sensitive ; until to-day his
own absorption in a matter which demanded all
his energies, his wife's timid constraint in his
society, had rendered him as indifferent to her
charms as it is possible for the newly-married
husband of a beautiful wife to be ; but now that
his interest in her was for a moment roused by
her unexpected change of conduct, her open
parade of dislike gave him a great shock. His
own eyes shrank away under the cold gaze he
had challenged ; for a moment he could say
nothing. Her voice, in the same larch tone,
grated again on his ears.

"Is that all you have to say ? "

No, by Heaven, it is not ! " he began
furiously. Then, recollecting himself as he met
her unflinching look again, he added, in a voice
he meant to be as cold as her own, but in which
it was easy for her to detect the tremor of suppressed
passion, " You can go. I will speak to
you again when you are in a different mood."

She gave him a curtsey which roused in him
an unmanly longing to box her ears, and turned
his back upon her sharply, with his right fist
clenched and an unorthodox exclamation on his
lips. But she had not gone two steps before
he called her back again, and laying his hand
almost roughly upon her shoulder, he said 

'' Now tell me the truth. Where did you
go this afternoon ? And who did you meet ?
I must and will know who put you up to this
unladylike, unwomanly conduct."

Of course, if I speak at all, what I say will
be the truth."

No more airs. Go on."

She was getting rather frightened, under all
her bravado, by the storm she had raised ; so
she spoke at once, and the fierce excitement
which had enabled her to maintain that white

heat which had looked Hke cold insensibility,
now took a different form.

'' I went to Goldborough ; I meant to runaway.
I should have run away if I had not
met the man I most respect in the world, and
if I had not been persuaded by him, against my
better judgment, to return. As to the person
who 'put me up' to running away, and who 'put
me up ' to having a will of my own, it is the
man who married me without caring for me, to
carry out a cruel, wicked purpose, the man I
hate," she hissed out at him between her teeth,
'' as I never thought I could hate any one.
Now turn me out if you like ; there is nothing
in the world I wish for more."

She stood before him when she had ended,
white and panting, sullen and angry, as much a
contrast to the fair, modest girl he had so
carelessly wooed as if she had been another
woman. But to this man, who had never until
the evening before guessed the depth of her
feelings, she was far more attractive in her
stormy defiance than she had been in her shy
and almost awkward submission.

'' So you hate me, do you ? " he said very

quietly, after a short pause. *' Very well then.
I am not going to reward you for your heartless
and wicked words by letting you have
your wish. You will remain under this roof,
and I can promise you that you shall be
troubled with as little of my society as you can
possibly desire."

And he, in his turn, made her a low bow,
and stalked off with what dignity he could,
still in a tumult of passions, to the outer hall,
where he snatched up his hat and went out to
cool himself in the park.

Geraldine thought that altogether she had
come off very well in the encounter, and she
ran up, still trembling with excitement, and
rather incoherent in the further orders she gave
the servants, who were busy preparing for her
use the room which had once been James's.
It was tiny and inconvenient, but it was as far
as possible from her husband's, and opposite
to the head of the back staircase ; so that she
could, if she chose to go up and down in that
ignominious fashion, avoid altogether the possibility
of meeting her lord and master. She had.
obtained the key of it that morning from Miss

Elizabeth, who had never allowed it to be
opened during all the six years since the news
of James's conviction first came from Ireland.
The dust and cobwebs of six years filled the
room when Geraldine entered ; one pane of the
window had got broken, and a bat few round
the walls and made her shriek before it escaped
through the hole in the glass.

There was not space for much attempt at
comfort in the room ; but of course Geraldine,
in the indulgence of a whim, did not mind that.
The bedstead which had been good enough for
James was a small, folding one, which was apt
to fold itself up of its own accord in the middle
of the night ; that now gave place to one less
active, and room was found for a small writing-table.
But the dirty old birds' nests, the fir-cones,
and the pet rabbit stuffed by James
himself, with waistcoat-buttons for eyes, and a
handsome tail which had evidently not belonged
to it in life, were allowed to remain upon the
mantelpiece. And the pictures of pirates and
animals, torn out of books and newspapers,
were left pinned to the walls of the room by
its new occupant.

It was not until after dinner that evening
that Captain Morrison learnt where It was that
his wife had chosen to Instal herself, and he
received the news of this caprice with grave
displeasure, to which she paid no heed. But
she had sense enough to see that some effort
was required to make the new state of affairs
between them tolerable to both ; and she
adopted towards him a manner outwardly
courteous but no longer submissive. From
the first moment of their meeting at the dinner-table
after the stormy interview in the hall, he
had been wondering what course she meant to
adopt, and was again forced to admire this
unexpected tact. That evening his manner
was sullen, and he talked as little as usual ;
but he listened, sometimes with contempt,
sometimes with annoyance, never with absolute
indifference, to every word she spoke, though
his eyes never once turned in her direction.
In the course of the evening she expressed a
fear of being bored, and civilly asked her
husband if he had any objection to her trying
to revive, when their mourning allowed It, the
old gaieties of Warlngham, and if she might

try her hand at entertaining as soon as she
could. To which he replied briefly that she
might entertain whom she pleased. The old
ladies heard her with astonishment at the
change of taste, as they thought it, which had
appeared in shy, solitary Geraldine ; but she
laughed rather feverishly as they exchanged
glances, and said 

''Ah, you think I am too ambitious; but
you have only seen me under one aspect, and
you don't know me yet."

The truth of this soon dawned upon them
as, very gradually at first, but with the sure
hand of one fitted by nature for the task,
Geraldine gained the reputation of being the
most charming hostess as well as the prettiest
woman in that part of the county. She and
Elizabeth, who was glad to see the Hall regain
its lost position, cleverly met each other halfway
in the difficult matter of the retiring of the
elder to make way for the younger lady as
mistress of the house. On the whole, young
Mrs. Morrison was chary of alarming innovations
; but she neglected the barouche for a
neat brougham, and she insisted on the refurnishing

of the drawing-room. Life seemed
to go on easily enough at the Hall after that
first stormy day ; Geraldine threw herself
energetically into the business of receiving and
returning calls, and in superintending such refurnishing
as she had decreed, and the filling of
the conservatory  a task in which she delighted.
She avoided being alone with her husband fora
single moment, would not even pay a call
with him without the presence of one of the old
ladies in the carriage. This of course quickly
had the result of his letting her pay them without
him. This fact, and rumours of singular
domestic arrangements, gave the gossip-loving
neighbours something to talk about ; but no
authentic account of a quarrel ever got abroad.
The wife's manner to her husband was charmingly
deferential and good-humoured ; the
husband's was less gracious certainly, but then
Captain Morrison, taciturn and gloomy, was
already looked upon as rather a bear, and if
the perfect happiness of the newly-married
couple were doubted, nobody was likely to be
sorry for him.

But, of the two, he had the worse time of

it. In the first three weeks after their return,
Geraldine had plenty of occupation of a kind
which pleased her. One part of her imaginative
and excitable nature was satisfied with the
enjoyment she managed to extract from visits
and entertainments in which she was the centre
of attraction ; and if, when night came and she
found herself alone in her room listening to the
boisterous winds which began to howl round
the house in warning of the comingwinter, she
sobbed at the thought of the lonely life which
stretched before her, and longed with a deep
and wistful confine which she had never known
before, which she could not understand, for
some tidings of her poor brother, as in her
prayers she called James, yet at least she had
had some consolations, and even the fact that
she could cry by herself over her grief was
a solace.

But Captain Morrison found no pleasure in
dinner-parties at which he generally found himself
between two important be-capped and
greedy dowagers with nothing to say to him
and no power of inspiring him to speech,
watching the beautiful woman he had married

as she sat smiling and gracious, apparently
extracting incomprehensible enjoyment from
the conversation of a pompous rural dean or a
lad fresh from Cambridge. He thought her
charming ; he wondered that he had not found
it out before ; and one night, when they were
returning home in the barouche, and he looked
at her as, muffled up in furs to guard her
against the piercing cold of the late October
night, she lay back with closed eyes by the side
of Miss Elizabeth  Eleanor was too delicate
to go out at night  he decided within himself
a point which he had been debating for the last
few days  that he loved her.

He was a man with whom action followed
promptly on resolution. The dim light of the
carriage-lamps, which showed him his wife's
beautiful face peeping out from the hood of her
sable cloak, showed him also that the collapsed
and crumpled condition of the heap of shawls
and cloaks which contained the other lady must
be the result of slumber ; therefore, no sooner
did he feel, as he leant forward in his seat to
gaze at the still, white face opposite to him, the
blood rise to his head and a orreat throb of

tenderness stirring his heart, than he sHd down
upon his knees on the floor of the carriage,
seized her right hand, which hung Idly down
from the loose fur sleeve, and, gently pulling
down the long glove, pressed his lips to her
arm. But she sat upright with a starts and
snatched her arm away with an abruptness
which made him regain his seat In hot anger.
He could not speak, however, for these movements
roused Miss Elizabeth, who woke up
with a slight snort which startled her excited
companions, and sleepily asked If they were
home yet. When they arrived, Geraldlne
escaped upstairs before her husband could
stop her. Having thus the night for reflection,
as he did not attempt to call her back, he made
up his mind to come to an understanding with
her next day, to tell her that he consented
to overlook the childish and whimsical manner
In which she had begun her married life,
but that there must be no nonsense for the
future ; that he had allowed her to behave in a
perfectly absurd fashion too long, and that she
must make up for it by exemplary conduct now.
This would put matters on to a sensible footing,

VOL. II. 35

and show her that he would not suffer any more
airs. She had not chosen last night to accept
his advances as a lover ; well, then, she should
submit to the prosaic authority of a husband.

He determined to make known his pleasure
to her immediately after breakfast the next
morning, during which meal he was very
fidgety.

'' Geraldine," he said, in a firm voice, as
soon as they all rose, " I wish to speak to
you. Can you come into the library for a few
minutes ? "

The tone was a command ; she at once
followed him obediently, and, when he had
shut the door, . waited in the most perfect
attitude of dutiful submission for him to declare
his wishes. He looked at the cold face,
at the statuesque repose of the figure, and
turned away from her with all his carefully
prepared speeches forgotten and his head on
fire. However, an effort must be made.

*' I want you," he began abruptly, without
looking at her again  '' I want you to  toto
see about having this chair re-covered,"
he blurted out, his eyes having fallen on

the shabby old armchair, which Geraldine's
improvements had left untouched in loving
memory of Sir Charles.

Certainly," said she, without even looking
surprised. But suddenly she caught her breath,
her face changed, and her eyes filled with
tears.

'' Oh, would you mind, will it matter, if
I have another chair put there instead ? " she
asked, in a voice now sweet and pleading. " It
was  my guardian's."

*' Oh, yes, of course, put any chair you
like ! " he agreed at once ; and, seizing-the
opportunity her softened mood seemed to offer,
he came towards her and had the pleasure of
seeing her stiffen back into her former rigidity
at his approach.

The sight made him feel sick ; he turned
sharply away with a muttered  " Confound
you ! " and walked back to the bureau.

*' Have you anything more to say ? " she
asked submissively.

'' Yes  that if ever a woman got better
treatment than she deserved, it is you,
Geraldine."

'' Thank you," she said with beautiful
humility, and left the room.

Then he marched up and down In restless,
excited fashion, calling her all sorts of names,
and full of indignant astonishment at her outrageous
perversity. Half a dozen times he had
his fingers upon the door-handle to go in search
of her and force her to listen to reason ; half
a dozen times he turned back again, with
indecision most unusual in him, shrinking,
though he would not acknowledge the fact,
from again encountering that look of cold dislike
which was the weapon she had chosen to
repel his overtures. After spending half the
morning In this unsatisfactory fashion, he suddenly
and opportunely remembered that no
woman's whims were worth so much consideration
on the part of a reasoning man ; and,
seating himself at the bureau, he plunged Into
his correspondence. The unworthy subject,
however, continued to Intrude upon his thoughts,
and when, after luncheon, which passed off as
usual, he started for his customary afternoon
ride, he had not gone far before, his longing
for her kindness getting the better of his pride,

he suddenly turned his horse's head and rode
back, resolved to proceed at once upon a more
conciliatory plan. So, on dismounting, he
turned into the rose-corner in search of a
peace-offering ; but the very last late roses,
which had lingered on past their season in this
sheltered spot, were all dead now, and he went
round the house towards the conservatory, trying
to make up a speech which should combine
dignity with tenderness. He was still engaged
upon this effort of composition when, arriving
at the conservatory, and glancing through the
steaming panes and the thick foliage of the
plants inside, he saw a pretty picture which
sent both dignity and tenderness to the winds.

His wife had strolled through the diningroom
to show the latest additions to her
beloved collection of flowers to a visitor ; and,
standing among the bright blossoms in a gown
of black silk glittering with jet, which set off
her fair complexion and chestnut hair, she
looked handsome and, moreover, bright and
happy  a consummation which her husband,
in a passion of rage and jealousy, ascribed to
the fact that her companion was Reginald

Bamber. The young man was bending down
and speaking very earnestly, and she was
listening with an intent interest which gave her
face both colour and animation. And the case
against both, already strong in the husband's
eyes, was still further strengthened when, on
his opening the door and appearing at the
further end of the conservatory, both started
in unmistakable confusion. The greeting between
the two men was rather awkward.
Geraldine did not even attempt to conceal
her annoyance at the interruption ; and when,
after an inspection of the flowers, in which
Reginald alone was able to take real interest,
the latter took his leave, Mrs. Morrison had
the audacity to exchange a few words with him
in a very low voice in the very presence of her
husband, standing a few feet away. And the
words she said were 

Write to me."

I dare not."

*' You must. Give me a note after church."
She added a message to the Vicar and his wife
in a louder voice, and coolly and deliberately
watched him down the drive with evident interest,

which was not only calculated to Irritate
her husband, but designed to do so.

"What were you whispering to Mr. Bamber
? " asked Captain Morrison, with an unsuccessful
attempt at indifference, as his wife
turned from the door.

'' Oh, nothing," she replied petulantly, " except
a few words about flowers! If you are
going to be jealous of every one I speak to,
you had better employ a detective at once ; you
are fond of that sort of thing, I know."

And, for the first time openly disregarding
his commands, she ran into the dining-room and
upstairs to the top of the house, where, going
through the trap door out on to the roof, which
was flat and made a very pleasant promenade,
she closed the trap-door after her, and, sitting
down breathless upon the edge of the parapet,
she looked out over the wide landscape, her
hands clasped tightly together and her face
flushed with hope and excitement. She had
encouraged her husband's jealousy of handsome
Reginald Bamber in order to prevent his suspecting
the real reason of the interest she took
in his society. At the moment when her husband's

appearance in the conservatory broke
off their conversation, he had just told her
that he had been to Enfield, and had been
successful in finding a clue to James Otway's
present hiding-place. More she must know.
Badly as James had behaved, her old affection
and pity for him had sprung up again in the
faithful heart of the woman, and no reproach
she could find for him was so strong as that
she made to herself for having allowed herself
for one moment to forget the gratitude which,
in spite of all his faults, she romantically believed
she owed him.

She was so hopeful, so happy, that, when
she descended from her retreat and met her
husband, still looking angry and sullen, at the
drawing-room door, she made submission very
sweetly, and turned aside the torrent of his
displeasure by a gaiety which charmed while
it disquieted him. For he felt that this enviable
self-possession was a suspicious quality,
and that, if she could only be light-hearted as
the result of another man's society, he would
prefer that she should not be light-hearted at all.
However, he had no opportunity of saying

this, and both husband and wife walked safely
on the volcano until the following day, which
was Sunday. In the morning, after church,
Geraldine devoted herself, outside the little
porch, to the Vicar and his family, was solicitous
about the effects of the recent fogs on
Mrs. Bamber s throat, was anxious to hear the
latest tidings of the boys at Shrewsbury ; but
her husband shared her interest in these and
kindred subjects with such keenness that it was
impossible for her to exchange a word with
Reginald unheard by him.

Is there an afternoon-service here today
? " she asked carelessly, before the group
broke up.

'* No, not here  at Cawfield," said Reginald.

And her eyes rested for just one moment
longer on his face, with an intimation which he
understood.

Five minutes after she had retired that
afternoon to her own room, with two three-volume
novels " to choose from," she had
slipped out of the house, and on her way
through the grass-walk bound for Cawfield
Church. In the state of unnatural and unhealthy

excitement which she now habitually
encouraged as her best refuge from the exaggerated
horror she took of her position as the
wife of a man she disliked, these little shifts
and subterfuges to trick him and escape him
amused her ; and she fled through the wood
with light steps, her cheeks burning with
triumph at having outwitted him. As her
trembling fingers lifted the latch of the side
gate at the end of the wood-path, she gave one
look behind her as she fancied she heard the
crackling of a branch ; but she was not pursued
; and, turning again, she slipped through
the gate, and was shutting It behind her, when
she caught sight of her husband, leaning against
a gate on the other side of the road about fifty
yards away. He had a cigar between his lips,
and his hands in his pockets, and his head was
turned away from her ; but she knew that he
was on the watch, and felt also that her guilty
start did not escape him. After one moment
of hesitation her spirit rose, and she walked on
in his direction, and was passing him with a
most hypocritical smile when he came up to
her, with a manner which was meant to be as
sweet as her own.

Going to church twice in one day ! " he
exclaimed, with badly acted surprise which
disgusted her, though his duplicity was certainly
no deeper than her own.

Yes. But I own I expect to enjoy the
walk more than the sermon."

'* Will It spoil the pleasure If I come with
you ? " he asked, with what seemed to her
hideous amiability.

On the contrary. Of course I shall enjoy
It much more," she answered, with effrontery
which cut him to the heart, while It Inflamed
his anger still more against her.

He wanted to speak seriously to her, he
wanted to bully her, he longed to make love to
her ; but she would chatter the lightest of talk
about the fields and the fogs and the coming
week's arrangements, and, as her heart was free
and her head cool, all the advantage was on
her side, and she had her way with the talk for
the whole two miles until they reached the
straggling cluster of houses. In the midst of
which stood Cawfield Church. The absurdity
of any one not belonging to the parish coming
to listen to the curtailed service, which was a

race between parson and clerk, in which most
of the congregation fell out very soon, and to
the musty old college sermon, too pedantically
worded for an ordinary congregation, which the
Rev. Albert Thorpe found good enough fora
handful of villagers, was so apparent that the
appearance of Captain and Mrs. Morrison sat
everybody whispering ; and when, just as the
harmonium had gasped out the last wheezy note
of the voluntary, young Mr. Bamber came in
and shut himself modestly into a pew as near
as he could to the door, nobody scrupled to
stare at him open-mouthed and to wag his
head at his neighbour in a way which implied
the general opinion that the gentry were odd
folk.

The Rev. Albert Thorpe took the honour of
the visit to himself, and divided his attentions
between them, addressing the prayers and
thanksgivings to the Vicar's son, thundering out
the Commandments straight at Captain Morrison,
and reserving the well-rounded and sonorous
periods of his sermon for Geraldine. When
service was over, and Mr. Thorpe had hurried
out of the old-fashioned three-decker, which

was pulpit and lectern for him and desk for the
clerk, and had retired behind a sheet hung up
In the corner to take off his surplice, Reginald
waited at the church door for his neighbours,
and they all three walked back to Warlngham
together, after having duly congratulated ]mr.
Thorpe, who rushed out for the purpose, and
who begged young Mr. Bamber to ask the
Vicar to tell Wilkins to let him have better
candles in the pulpit. The clerk would put tallow
ones, and ]mr. Thorpe complained that they
grew so dim for want of snuffing that he could
not see to read, and it was unseemly for a
minister of the Gospel to have to stop in the
middle of his discourse to snuff them with his
fingers.

Talk was kept up easily enough until they
all three, having parted with Mr. Thorpe at the
turning which led to the farmhouse where he
had tea on these occasions, reached the side
gate which opened Into the wood in Waring
Park. It was getting dark and foggy,
and, as Reginald, on shaking hands with
Geraldlne, slipped a note from his hand Into
hers, both flattered themselves that the action

was unseen. As a matter of fact they were
right ; but Captain Morrison's suspicions were
so fully roused that the fact that his wife
appeared perfectly contented and even gay on
her way through the wood to the house with
him, seemed to his jealous mind sufficient proof
that she had found some means of communicating
secretly with Reginald Bamber under his
very nose. So that, on arriving at the house,
he followed her into the drawing-room, where
she went at once to avert suspicion that she
was in haste to be alone ; and, turning up the
lamp high, while his dark eyes burnt with a
fierceness which frightened her, he said shortly 
Now, the letter ! Give me the letter ! "
No acting was proof against such a surprise
as that ; the flash of terror over her face, the
involuntary step back were enough for him.
The low sound which escaped between his
teeth as he leant over the table and glared at
her with clenched fists and dark, livid face,
seemed to the horror-struck woman like the
cry of a savage animal. She tried to laugh,
but her ease was gone : with that letter, which
contained, as she knew, the means of setting

this man with his blood-hound ferocity straight
upon the track of a man she loved in her
pocket, she felt for the moment numb, powerless,
lost. She could only stand and watch the
horrible convulsive quivering of his face, without
thought, without feeling. It was only a
few moments, but it seemed to her a very longtime
before he spoke again.

'* The letter ! Make haste. Give it me."

Life and thought were coming back to her ;
simple feminine instinct suggested the first inevitable
shuffling speech 

Letter ! What letter ? "

It added fuel to the fire which was raging
in the man's veins.

' Confound your prevarication. Don't you
see that you are found out, that you are caught,
that the best thing you can do for yourself Is to
confess, to throw yourself on my mercy ? "

Mercy ! Wiser to hope for it from a
wounded tiger, from a famished blood-hound
than from this man !

What am I to confess ? What hg.ve you
found out ? "

A second pause-during which he saw a

light pass over her face ; the next moment her
hand stole to her pocket. He was watching
her intently, not a movement could escape
him. He saw the fingers fumble, disappear,
reappear  clutching something he could not
yet see. But he knew what it was, and he slid
a step farther towards her round the table. Ashe
did so, she sprang across the hearth rug, and
thrust the letter through the bars of the grate
into the red heart of the fire. He was coming ;
he was upon her ; but before he could push her
aside she had sprung erect, faced him, and flung
her arms round him to detain him till the last
scrap of the paper was consumed. For the
moment her touch seemed to paralyze him, he
could not fling her aside ; then, his fury rising
again, he put up his hands to free himself from
hers, which she had clasped at the back of his
neck. But when his fingers touched hers, his
face changed ; his hands fell to his sides, he
shook from head to foot, and, laying his head
on her shoulder, he whispered hoarsely 

Oh, Heaven, what have you done to me.'"

But the paper was burnt, by turning her

head she could see that ; and, freeing herself

with a sob of relief, she met his eyes as he
raised his head sharply. But the agony which
had replaced the anger In his face she did not
understand.

Now, what" have you got to ask ? What
have you to say ? You want to know what the
letter said, I suppose, or do you "

He Interrupted the stream of her feverish,
querulous questions In a low, monotonous,
almost weak voice, which made her look at
him more attentively.

'' No. I don't want to know  anything
more. You can  leave me."

He was leaning against the mantelpiece,
which his shoulders only just reached, almost
as If he wanted Its support ; his dark face was
very pale, and he seemed to be breathing with
some difficulty.

*' Are you  are you not well, Philip ? " she
asked uncertainly, coming a step nearer.

'' I am not In need of your assistance, thank
you.

He spoke coldly, not rudely; and she went
without another word, somewhat crestfallen,
somewhat hurriedly, towards the door. But

VOL. II. 36

just as she reached It, and when the partition
hid her from his sight, a moan broke upon her
ears which caused her to start, and to turn, and
to put her hand slowly into her pocket and feel
for something there with trembling fingers, and
doubt in her eyes. But in another moment she
heard an impatient movement and a curse from
her husband's lips ; and, dropping again into
her pocket that which she had half withdrawn,
she opened the door and slipped through and
shut it in nervous haste, and, hurrying up to
her own room like a hare, locked herself in with
a great sigh of ease from her burden.
For she had tricked him after all.

CHAPTER XI.

The candles In Geraldlne's room had already
been lighted by her maid, and she watched
them flickering in the gust her flying entrance
had caused, listening in dread lest her husband's
suspicions should bring him to her
door, in which case that frail wooden structure
would scarcely stand long in his way. In a
few minutes her groundless fears subsided,
and, drawing from her pocket the note which
Reginald had given her, in place of which she
had thrown into the fire a letter from Miss
Gretton which she had suddenly remembered
she had about her, she opened it very softly,
lest the mere rustle of paper should fall on
listening ears, and read it almost without daring
to draw breath.

'' Dear Mrs. Morrison,

I am sorry to have to communicate
with you in this manner, as, if it should in any
unforeseen way come to your husband's knowledge,
it would naturally annoy him very much.
However, if I am unable to give you the tidings
you wish for by word of mouth, as you seem to
fear will be the case, this note will inform you
that I have been to the place you mentioned,
and have learnt that the person about whom
you are anxious does not go there, but that a
man named Hammond has made two brief
visits there within the month of September.
I think it probable that he was a friend or
agent of the other. The man Hammond, on
one of his two visits, ordered some things of a
local tradesman for the use of the person he
was visiting, and ordered that the bill should be
sent to an address which duly found him  ' No.
5, Bankside Cottages, Chiswick.' I don't know
whether you will consider this much of a clue,
or whether you will decide to make any use of
it. If so, I hope you will be cautious. The
man may be  probably is  a rogue ; and I
think, harsh as it may sound to say so, the

better as well as the wiser course for you to
pursue now would be to reconcile yourself to
circumstances, and leave a man who, you must
own, shows considerable ability in keeping out
of the way of well-merited punishment, to his
fate.

'* Perhaps you will forgive my presumption
in offering you advice, in consideration of the
alacrity I have shown in obtaining for you the
information you desired.

Yours very truly,

'' Reginald D. Bamber."

Geraldine read this letter three times, and
then she held it in one of the candles until it
was totally destroyed, and, opening the window,
she let the black, brittle remains of the paper be
carried away in morsels by the wind. There
was no fear of her forgetting one syllable of the
information it had given her, and it was too
dangerous a document to be allowed to remain
in existence. Then she sat down, glancing at
her little clock as she did so. They dined an
hour earlier on Sunday ; it was six o'clock, she
had only half an hour before her in which to

decide upon a line of conduct to be pursued
towards her husband, in order to attain her
object of going to London without him. No
letter would serve her purpose ; she must see
this man Hammond, make her own observations
as to whether he were worthy of trust, and
try to discover from him where James was and
whether he was safe and well. After a struggle
between reason and her affectionate instincts,
Geraldine belief in his innocence had risen
again triumphant ; and imagination, which washer
strongest faculty, persisted in picturing him
as the victim of some plot whose nature she
guessed at continually, but could not determine.
A month ago, the assurance of some person
such as Reginald Bamber, in whom she could
trust, would have satisfied her of the exiles
safety ; but ever since the discovery of her
husband's designs upon him, her own solicitude
had grown so rapidly, he was so continually in
her thoughts and even in her dreams, that she
felt that nothing but the evidence of her own
eyes could content her ; she must see him, and
soon. Now and then a horrible fear would cross
her mind that he was dead, perhaps killed by

J

her husband, of whose anxiety to find him she
had heard no more since the night of their
arrival at Waringham. The fear struck her
with fresh force now, paralyzed her, and took
away her power of thought. When the dinner-bell
rang she went downstairs, pale, anxious-looking,
undecided. She and her husband
watched each other furtively during the meal,
which was short and silent. x\s soon afterwards
as she could, Geraldine stole away from the
drawing-room to the conservatory, and, throwing
herself into an American chair which stood
in a corner surrounded by some of her favourite
friends among the flowers, she closed her eyes
and tried to arrange her feverish imaoinlnos into
connected thoughts.

The dim light from the fantastic Chinese
lanterns with which it was her pleasure that her
fairy-land should be lighted, struggled through
the thick, tinted glass, the grotesque figures on
which threw distorted shadows on the stone
floor and on her own face and figure as she lay
back in nervous unrest, with one hand raised to
her hot and aching head. The perfume of a
cigar caused her to open her eyes to see the

dark figure of her husband standing a few steps
from her among the flowers, the demon in her
paradise.

*' I did not mean to disturb you," he apologized,
stepping back as he noted the too
eloquent expression of her face. " I did not
know you were here."

Pray don't go," said she civilly, ashamed of
her unguarded expression of dislike.

And it suddenly occurred to her that there
was something pitiful in the way in which he
slunk back to the door, turned away from the
enjoyment of the pretty things he had provided
for her by her own ungraciousness. She put
pressure upon herself, and, hurrying after him,
laid her hand upon his shoulder.

'you know I don't mind the scent of a
cigar at all, Philip," she said, gently.

He turned his head and looked at her with
something of the pleading expression of a 
his long, full, brown eyes.

No ; but you mind my presence, don't
you ? "

"No, I don't," she answered impatiently
petulant because of the truth of the accusation.

'' Come back and finish your cigar. It was all
nonsense this afternoon, you know," she added
hurriedly, as he yielded, half against his will, to
her rather awkwardly exercised seductions, and
returned towards the carpeted corner where she
had been sitting. " There Is not the least
reason for you  for any jealousy of Mr. Bamber,
and I give you my word of honour there
was nothing at all affectionate In his note."

Then why were you so anxious about It ?
Why any need of a note at all ? "

That was your fault. You watched me,
and I won't be watched. I shouldn't care If
Mr. Bamber were to go to America tomorrow."

He looked at her steadfastly, and believed,
because he wanted to believe. But, If there
was truth in her face, as he was Inclined to
think, there was no love.

After all, what can It matter to me
whether you do or do not care for another
man's society as long as it Is certain you can't
endure mine ? "

Geraldine moved restlessly ; it was Impossible
to contradict such a truism ; but something
must be said to mitigate Its crudity.

Of course  of course married people can
never get on so well until  until they are used
to each other," said she, as hopefully as she
could.

*' Do you think we are going the right way
to  to get used to each other ? "

He had thrown away his cigar, having
burnt his fingers with it in his agitation. She
was in terror lest he should approach her,
underrating as she did the sensitiveness of the
man's nature and the quickness of his perceptions.
How could he dare to expect Wifely
duty and love from her now that she had found
out the horrible motive of his marriage with
her ? But she did not want to re-open the
subject with another sense of useless, wearing
passion. She shrugged her shoulders and
turned to play with the fronds of a delicate fern.

Well, you will soon be relieved from my
presence for a little while," he informed her
rather bitterly. *' I am going to accept an invitation
I had yesterday to go down to Melton
for a week's hunting. Do you think you will
be able to find some sort of a welcome for me
by the time I come back ? "

The question was half a sneer ; but the
news fulfilled her own wishes so marvellously
that there was quite a genuine ring in his wife's
answer.

I am sure I shall, Philip. I wish for your
sake Norfolk were a hunting county ; you will
find it dull to come back to your afternoon
rides."

I should not, if " he began Impulsively,

and stopped.

"If what's" she inquired, guessing what
was coming, at the same moment that a scheme
for carrying out her own wishes occurred to her
and gave sudden brightness to her face.

If  if you would ride with me," he replied
in a hesitating voice. -

I have never learnt to ride," she answered
readily. '' But I think I should like it, if I
where not afraid of appearing awkward at first."

"You would soon get over that. I would
teach you with pleasure."

He was trying not to appear too eager.
So was she, for a different reason.

I should have to overcome the first difficulties
of it before I dared to try your patience

SO much," said she nervously. "I  I wish
there were a riding-school in Goldborough ;
then I would begin while you were away."

I would give up Melton if you are really
so anxious to begin at once."

'' Oh, no, no ! " said she promptly, for this
was by no means what she wanted. '' I would
not have you make such a sacrifice for the
world ! "

This amiability was rather excessive, and
Captain Morrison shot a keen look at her out
of his jealous eyes. She continued 

"It is your witnessing my first attempts
that I want to avoid. Isn't there some ridings
you know of where I could be broken
in a little before coming to you for finishing
lessons ? I should not mind going up to town
for a day or two, if Miss Elizabeth would go
with me. I know I could learn there ; and I
should like the change and the excitement."

This was evident enough. Her eyes were
glittering, her cheeks were flushed, she looked
eager, and even anxious. Her husband, on the
other hand, had grown very quiet, very still 
suspiciously so, she might have thought, had

she not been somewhat banded by her own
excitement and the effort to keep it in check.

Yes," said he musingly ; " you might do
that certainly. When do you propose to
go?"

I don't propose at all. It is for you to
make known your intentions and wishes," said
she gaily,

You seem very much pleased at the idea
of going away."

I am  I own it. I have seen scarcely
anything of London ; and what I have seen I
love."

She was looking so radiant, so lovely in her
delight at having gained her point that he was
irresistibly drawn a step nearer to her ; and he
bent down over a flower to bring his head
closer yet to the spot where her little white
fingers were playing with the leaves of a plant.

'' Why didn't you tell me so before ? I
would have taken a house in town for you.
You shall have one there next season, If you
like."

Oh, well, we can talk about that later on ! "
almost gasped Geraldine, upon whose ears the

suggestion of a perpetual tete-astute with her
husband fell with appalling suddenness.

Yes, of course ; anything that concerns
me and my happiness can be shelved till later
on," said he, with a warning growl in his voice
which snuffed out her exultation in a moment.

She was rather sorry for this man now and
then, with his fierce, concealed passions, which
seemed to make his own life a burden to him ;
but she feared him, and the moment his
passions threatened to emerge from their concealment
she hated him.

'' I did t know that you were fond of
London, indeed," said she, with the deadened,
spiritless meekness which always exasperated
him.

'' You don't care what I'm fond of, as long
as it is something that keeps me out of your
way, do you ? Your husband's affections are
no concern of yours."

A wife married as I was married cannot
expect affection."

And does not wish for it ? "

Her spirit rose, and, facing him, she echoed
his words 

And does not wish for it."

Great Heavens ! You can say that to my
face ."

Why not ? Is It such an astounding thing
that a woman you married simply that she
might become the unconscious accomplice in
the murder of her brother should not bear you
the love of a wife won for herself ? "

Even if It were as you say, that would be
no concern of yours. All that a wife has a
right to demand of her husband Is that he
should keep her In comfort to the best of his
ability, and treat her with kindness. If every
wife were to claim the right to dole out her
love and duty according to the measure of
approval she thought fit to bestow on her
husband's general conduct, there would be no
more marriages."

It is a pity you did not explain to me your

singular code before marriage ; it would have

saved a great deal of misunderstanding. The

wife may not even claim fidelity, I see."

Not as a right, certainly'*

Ah, your teaching is charmingly simple !

Then, if she should find that in the very first

days of marriage her husband is always looking
at another woman's portrait, if ' Maud's ' letters
and ' Maud's ' hair are stowed away as his most
treasured possessions, the wife is to fold her
hands meekly and to submit to his neglect, his
indifference, and to be quite overwhelmed with
dutiful joy when these give place to a capricious
fancy for her."

Captain Morrison started at her mention of
the name '' Maud " ; but he seemed neither
confused nor displeased, but rather elated by
this sign of jealousy.

That would be pattern conduct, certainly ;
but, fortunately for you, I happen to admire
spirit in a woman, or I should not submit to
your living under my roof on the terms you
have chosen."

*' You know that on any other terms I
should not live here at all."

You cannot suppose I shall allow your
absurd arrangement to be permanent ?"

"It will be until you are tired of the sight
of me. Yes," she flashed out with passion, '' if
you hid a cruel secret from me, I hid something-fiercer
in me than what you call ' spirit ' from

you. But your deception was wilful, and mine
was not. I was never badly treated before, so
that I did not know how strong my Instincts of
justice and resistance were. You should not
have married the daughter of a peasant If you
wanted a pretty little puppet for your wife ! "

'' Perhaps I knew what I wanted better
than you think," said he, quietly.

So you overhauled my letters ? At least
1 can hardly say that, for apparently you did
not read them. You cannot have been very
jealous ! "

I did not care enough."

So I see. Maud is  was  my sister."

'' Your sister ! "

Yes, I would have told you before, If you
had asked me ; but, as you say, you did not
care ; besides, the story concerned another
person. As you have proved your claim to be
more than a puppet, you can hear It now." He
was speaking with extraordinary quietness, the
quietness of severe self-repression, and he went
on in a low, monotonous voice  *' She was a
girl of ' spirit,' and I dare say it was because I
worshipped her so, and thought that there was
VOL. II. 37

nobody like her, that I never fell very deeply
in love, never lost my head about a woman
until recently  quite recently. While I was
away on service in India, she married, threw
herself away, I thought, on a man old enough
to be her father. He was very rich, and I
suppose she thought she would be able to do
what she liked with him. However, it turned
out that he was a jealous and intractable old
brute, and he took her away to live in an out-of-the-way
place of his in Somersetshire 
almost shut her up, in fact. I had been ordered
home, and was looking forward to seeing her,
and determined to go down and remonstrate
with her husband, when suddenly came like a
thunderbolt upon me the news that she had
left him  with another man." Geraldine was
listening, horror-struck, spell-bound, guessing
the sequel. " I need not tell you what oath I
swore  perhaps you can guess, perhaps you
can understand. I reached England, learned
they had gone abroad. I would set no vulgar
detective to the wretched task which was the
one object of my life now. I knew the name of
the man I was pursuing ; I found out his home ;

I settled myself there to watch like a terrier
for a rat. No means were too ignoble for meno
course was too daring. I met a person who
would, I knew, sooner or later, be able to give
me a clue  if she would  at last I felt sure she
had got it ; but by that time I knew that, as
an acquaintance  as a friend, she would never
trust me with it. I determined to acquire the
only right which would enable me to get it'

But you failed, and you will always fail.
You have sacrificed me  and yourself, to no
purpose. Your love for your sister cannot
possibly be greater than mine for my adopted
brother ; and I warn you that, should you ever,
in spite of my utmost efforts, get on his track
and hunt him down, I will never live to be the
wife of his murderer. On the day that you lift
your hand against James Otway, you will be
free to try your matrimonial code on some
meeker woman than I } "

Husband and wife stood facing each other,
will opposed to will, eye flashing into eye, both
very quiet, the self-control of each affecting the
other ; and both, at the moment of their mutual
defiance, admiring each other more than they

had ever done before. But Geraldine's was
only the admiration of sudden respect added to
fear; in her husband it was the spark that
kindled his passion into flame.

He drew nearer to her, stirred as no
woman's fairness had stirred him, by her beauty
animated as it was by the qualities he most
admired, by steadfast loyalty and fearless
daring.

Geraldine," said he in a hoarse voice, ashe
crept towards her, his dark face pallid and
his dark eyes burning in weird contrast which
made him look diabolical in the eyes of the
woman he was approaching, " I want no meek
woman, I want you. I love you ! "

She shrank back without taking her eyes
off his quivering, livid face, which had the
fascination of horror for her. When he flung
his arm round her, she only shuddered and
stood passive, while he whispered into her ear
with hot lips which almost touched it 

*' Be kind to me, only look at me kindly,
and I will worship you as no wife was ever
worshipped before. See how gentle I can be !
Why are you afraid of me ? "

She felt like a girl in a fairy-tale in the
power of a demon, for through her husband s
passionate whispers she could think of nothing
but that he had sworn to kill James.

'' You said you would kill him ! " said she
faintly, not struggling but shivering at his
touch.

*' Oh, Geraldine, I have sworn  My
honour ! He is a scoundrel  why do you
care ? "

She wrenched herself away from him without
answer. And he buried his face in his
hands, shaking from head to foot in the
struggle between his oath and his passion. Ina
few moments he started into sudden self-control,
and, without looking at his wife again,
walked with heavy tread towards the diningroom.
But she, with a frightened guess at the
nature of that debate with itself and its issue,
called him back as he had his foot upon the
threshold.

Philip ! " said she in a whisper.
And he wavered and stopped.
'' How can you be so hard, so unchristian,
so cruel ? "

I hard, cruel ! Great Heaven ! Then
what are you ? "

She looked astonished in her turn  her
husband came slowly back towards her.

Listen, Geraldine ! An oath may mean
nothing to a woman ; but it is a bond to me.
But I will give it up, as I would give up my
soul, for you to love me. Draw my head into
your arms now, look into my eyes With one
kind look, and kiss my lips with one kind word,
and I will give up my revenge for ever."

He had drawn nearer and nearer to her, as
she stood, now tearful and trembling, her
figure drooping, her face softened, among the
flowers. But, after the fearful excitement of
the past half-hour, she was no longer capable
either of consummate acting or of perfect self-control.
She made one strong effort ; taking
a step forward, she encircled his bent head with
her trembling arms, said 

Thank you, Philip "  with a quivering
smile, and stooped to kiss him. But at the
moment her lips touched his an uncontrollable
shudder passed over her, and he shook her off
with a hissing, deep-drawn breath, and looked

at her furiously as she stood humiliated before
him.

You have saved my oath, at any rate ! "
said he very quietly ; and he turned and left
her.

And, without a word or cry, she sank,
fainting, on the stone floor.

CHAPTER XII.

It was the French maid AureHe who, when
nine o'clock struck and her mistress did not
ring for her as usual when there were no
visitors in the house, went in search of madame
and found her just raising herself from the
conservatory floor, cold, still", and giddy.

When it came to Captain Morrison's ears
through Elizabeth, who heard it from Aurelius,
that his wife had been found lying alone in the
gloom and the cold, his remorse knew no
bounds. He went up to the door of her room
and asked if he might see her ; but she begged
him to excuse her until the following day in
such a frightened, broken voice, that, irritated
again by her show of fear, he answered 

All right," with sharpness which disgusted
even Elizabeth, who could hear the colloquy

from her room, and marched straight downstairs
to the Library. And next day he made
no reference to the evening s event, though a
slight flush rose to his dark face on noticing,
when his wife first appeared at breakfast, that
she looked pale and heavy-eyed. In truth he
need not have felt so conscience-stricken, for the
ravages which a wakeful night had made in her
looks were not due so much to his cruelty as to
her anxiety on behalf of another man.

Engagements for luncheon, for dinner, calls
to make and to receive, luckily gave Geraldine
occupation for the first half of the week ; but
the constraint between her and her husband
grew daily more irksome to her, more unendurable
to him, and she heard on the Wednesday
evening, with a heart-throb of relief, that
he should start for Melton the next day.

'' Do you still think of going up to town to
take riding-lessons ? " he asked, without looking
at her.

'' Yes, I think I may as well. It will give
me a new occupation."

'' Then I will give you an address, and I
will telegraph for rooms for you and Miss

Elizabeth at a quiet hotel. How long do you
propose to stay ? "

Oh, I don't know ! I think a week, if you
don't mind ; you are going to stay a week at
Melton, are you not ? You might come to
bring us back, and we might go to a theatre or
two first. Would that suit you ? "

Certainly. You will want some money to
spend, won't you ? I will draw you a cheque."

He gave her the cheque before the evening
was over ; it was for such a large sum that
she begged him not to trust her with so much
money.

You know what a spendthrift I am," said
she. ''If you were to give me a thousand
instead of a hundred, it would all slip through
my fingers in the same way."

But the spending gives you pleasure,
Well, then, spend it. Since I cannot give you
happiness, let my money give you a poor
imitation of it."

Geraldine tore the paper, with a slight but
unmistakable stamp of her foot at the same
time.

That is mean, not generous," she said.

v>

'' You want to make me feel like a fraudulent
dependent."

Not fraudulent, for I gave it to you ; and
not dependent, since you have money of your
own. However, it is satisfactory to see that I
can make you feel something, if it is only
irritation at my ostentation."

She watched him uncomfortably as he
picked up the pieces of the torn cheque and
left the room. When he returned, he did not
speak to her, but spent the evening morosely
over the papers ; it was not until she wished
him good night that he handed her an envelope
containing notes to half the amount of the
cheque, and asked 

Is that too munificent ? "

*' Thank you. It is too much, but  thank
you."

The old ladies had passed out with their
candles, and husband and wife were alone
together.

'' I shall start tomorrow, before you are up,"
he said, in the monotonous voice which she now
knew to be a sign of a storm within. *' I will
say good-bye to you now. I have written for

rooms for you at Smith's Hotel. I hope you
will enjoy the change."

His eyes, too passionate at the moment to
be very penetrating, were fixed upon her face,
eloquent with Inquiry, suspicion, and entreaty.
She must act now, for some one else's sake.

*' I think I shall ; It will not be your fault if
I do not," she replied smiling. " You have
taken every care to make It pleasant for me.
Thank you."

She held her face towards him, and he
accepted the invitation with fervour which
caused each kiss to stings the conscience-stricken
wife.

*' You don't love me, I know you don't love
me," he whispered huskily, as he still held her
passive form In his arms. '' But tell me this,
on your honour, before Heaven  do you love
another man ? "

*' In the sense you mean, before Heaven I
do not'

He understood her, and, reading truth in
her eyes, he let her go, half satisfied. And he
was right, for her answer was honest  her love
for James was that of a sister for a fallen

brother, and she had no fear that her heart
would ever be stirred by a deeper passion for
any man.

Next morning when she came down to
breakfast, her husband  in spite of herself, to
her relief  was gone. Full of the excitement
which was now her only happiness, she fluttered
from room to room, busy with preparations for
her own departure ; and when, later In the day,
she and Elizabeth and Aurelie started, It needed
all her self-control to hide the fact that something
of more interest than riding-lessons was
the reason for her mad anxiety to go to town.

As she did not care what suspicions she
might rouse, if only she could get her difficult
and dangerous business over before her husband
could hear of her mysterious proceedings, the
very next morning she left the hotel alone, and,
watching carefully to be sure that she was not
followed, she walked a little way before she got
into a hansom and told the man to drive to
Waterloo station, having consulted 'bradshaw"
the night before, and found particulars of the
train to Chiswick. When he asked  " Main
line or loop line, ma'am ? " she began to feel

?nervous, because, In her Ignorance, she had to
tell him she wanted to go to Chadwick. However,
It was not likely that he would be able to
make dangerous use of this information, and
there was no help for It. She caught a train
which left London at five minutes past twelve,
and reached Chadwick at twenty-three minutes
past. She asked at the station for Bankside
Cottages, and was directed to a row of small
houses facing the river. In summer-time most
of them were let in lodgings to rowing-men,
city clerks, young stock-brokers and the like ;
but now, in winter, with dead creepers hanging
like huge cobwebs on the dirty walls, they
looked damp, deserted, and inexpressibly
dreary. Mr. Hammond, whether rogue or
honest man, showed singular taste in his
choice of a residence.

Geraldlne found No. 5. It seemed to
her to look drearier, more desolate than
the rest. A green stain spread from the end
of a broken water-pipe over one side of the
dingy brick front of the house, and a great
bush of untidy ivy straggled across the other
side and hung over the lower window. The

bell was broken  she went through the half-open
gate, along eight or ten feet of barren
garden, up the short flight of ill-kept steps,
and knocked at the door. After waiting some
minutes, she knocked again, and a dirty, sullen-looking
woman opened the door. Geraldlne
wondered whether this was Mrs. Hammond.

Does Mr. Hammond live here ? " she
asked, with as much assurance as she could
muster.

"Which Mr. Hammond do you want ? "

Geraldine was bewildered ; the possibility
of having to face a whole family had not occurred
to her. She was about most injudiciously
to ask how many Mr. Hammond there
were, when the woman continued impatiently,
examining her at the same time from head to
foot with evident suspicion 

'' Mr. Hammond is out."

And she was on the point of shutting the
door in the very face of her inquirer, when
Geraldine said quietly 

I will see the other one  the one who

is in."

'' Mr. Harry ? "

Yes," answered Geraldine, promptly, " Mr.
Harry Is the one I want."

She remembered the name on the back of
the photograph.

I don't think he's well enough to see anybody,"
said the woman doubtfully.

*' Is he ill, then ? " asked Geraldine.

Well, it s an illness with him," answered
the woman, with a wink and a gesture to intimate
that the malady in question was the
consequence of excess.

Geraldine shrank back as the woman stood
aside to let her enter.

Oh, you needn't be afraid ! " said she,
having perhaps grown a little curious as to
the lady's business. "He Isn't raving, or anything
of that sort. He's only stupid, and
perhaps you'll have a difficulty in making him
understand. You needn't be frightened ; I
shan't be far off."

Geraldine had no doubt of that. The task
before her seemed to promise to be anything
but pleasant or easy ; but she must go through
with It now. It suddenly occurred to her that
it might perhaps be easier to find out what she

wanted to know concerning James from a man
half-drunk than from one In the full and sober
possession of his senses. So she walked resolutely
Into the passage, while the woman
knocked at the first door on the right, and,
receiving no answer, turned the handle and put
her head Into the room.

Are you there, Mr. Harry ? Are you
awake ? " She had gone In, and her voice
sounded as If she was In the act of shaking
him. " Here's a lady want's to see you, do
you hear ? A lady ! "

A man's voice grunted, heaved a deep sigh,
muttered something almost Inarticulately.

Here, get up ; come and sit here ; don't
go to sleep again. Here are your boots ; I'll
help you on with them. Let me open the
window."

There was a sound of a window behoof
pushed open ; the next moment Geraldlne
heard a heavy shuffling tread across the floor,
and the window was slammed violently down
again, with another growl In the man's voice.

Well, I never ! I never knew such a one
to be afraid of a breath of fresh air. The

VOL. II. 38

place Isn't fit to come into ; It's stifling  that's
what it is."

She retreated, returning to Geraldlne in the
passage. But the courage of the latter had
given way.

'when will the other Mr. Hammond be
in ? " she asked, with trembling lips.

'' The doctor ? Oh, he won't be in not
before five or six  perhaps not then. He
doesn't live here, you know  only comes to
see his brother. He was here all last night
playing cards with him up to seven o'clock
this morning  not the best way to cure him,
as I made bold to tell him ; but he said his
brother was dull down here, and he's that fond
of him that, though he don't care for cards
himself, he sat up just to liven him up a bit.
He's a real devoted brother, and Master Harry
here"  jerking her head in the direction of
the room  ''he's not worth such devotion, that's
my opinion. So he's not been to bed at all ;
he's just been sleeping on the sofa."

"Well, I I don't think I'll see him this
morning ; I don't think it would be of much

use

She was interrupted by a voice from the
room, calling, 'mrs. Hicks!"

Geraldine started violently, and, gasping for
breath, stopped the landlady as the latter was
about to enter the room.

I'll go ; I may as well see him," she
whispered hurriedly ; and, opening the door,
she found herself in a rather small front
sitting-room, divided by half-open folding-doors
from a similar one at the back. The air was
close and heavy, the window, obscured by the
tangle of ivy hanging over it, let in but little
light ; a small fire burning in the grate increased
the oppression of the atmosphere. In an armchair
drawn up to the hearth-rug sat a man
with his back to the window ; his head was
sunk upon his breast and his eyes were closed.
He did not look up as Geraldine, after closing
the door with trembling hands, crept nearer and
nearer to him, until, stretching out one hand,
she touched one of his, which was hanging listlessly
over the arm of his chair.

James ! " she whispered faintly.

He raised his head, opened his eyes stupidly,
and stared at her. She sank on her knees in

front of him, and took his nerveless hand in her
warm, quivering fingers.

*' Don't you know me, James ? "

His hand quivered in hers, a gammer of
light came into his dull eyes, and burst into full
recognition as he started forward in his chair
and put his other hand upon her shoulder.

Geraldine, Geraldine ! " he cried doubtfully,
inquiringly. " Is it really you ? "

Why, yes, can't you see that it is ? " she
replied, in an unsteady voice. *' You can't seeme
very well, certainly ; but don't you know
my voice ? Have you forgotten your little
sister so utterly as that ? Feel."

She raised his hand lovingly to her cheek,
trying to smile at him through the tears that
would rise ; but she shivered as his fingers
touched her face.

How cold you are ! " she whispered,
frightened. " You are not well, you are really
ill ! Oh, what have you done to yourself ? "
She rose from her knees, staring into his face
with fiercely eager scrutiny. Then her voice
changed, and she said slowly, " What have they
done to you ? "

For a suspicion that her husband had been
at work in some mysterious way to bring him
to this condition shot through her mind as she
noted the signs of a great change in him.

Nothing," he answered, staring up at the
ceiling, ashe shook his head, as if trying to free
himself from the cloud which still seemed to
obscure his faculties. " Nobody has done anything
to me, Deldee. I'm all right."

Get up then. Come to the light ; let me
look at you."

 He got up at her touch of command, like a
man in a dream ; she still held his hand in hers,
and now drew him impatiently, imperiously
towards the window. But he staggered as he
followed her. There were two horse-discovered
chairs there, and she made him sit
down on one of them while she opened the
window. He shivered again, but she was
remorseless ; the November fog creeping up
from the river, whose cold, gray waters were
visible from where she stood, could not, she was
sure, do him so much harm as the hot, heavy
air of the room, which made her feel faint and
giddy before she had breathed it five minutes.

Then she turned again towards him, put her
hand on his shoulder, and looked Into his face
long and earnestly, while he fidgeted Impatiently
under the examination, repeating Irritably 

'i'm all right, Deldee ; I tell you I'm alii
right."

You have broken your promise to me," said
she reproachfully, without heeding his petulant
protest.

What promise ? What promise ? "

The one you made to me In the garden at
Warlngham. I am not preaching at you now ; It
Is too serious for that. There Is a strange lookin
your eyes that frightens me. I believe  oh,
James, I believe that you are killing yourself!"

Nonsense !" said he, with an attempt at a
lauo-h. " I tell you there Is nothing the matter
I have a headache, that's all."

He got up, threw out his arms, stamped on
the floor, and made an effort to pull himself
together; but he shivered again, and, staggering,
slipped back on to the chair from which he
had risen. As he did so, his hands went up
quickly to his head, and he gave a low exclamation
of pain.

I've got a splitting; headache, and that's
the truth ! " he confessed, looking up at her and
trying to speak brightly. 'i've not been
drinking, Deldee  is that what you mean ? "
he added, as the reason of her grave silence
occurred to him.

Then you have been taking some drug*'
said she authoritatively. ** I am sure of it ! "

"Well, don't be so angry. Yes ; I've been
taking morphine "

"Why, that's poison, isn't it?" she interrupted,
horror-struck.

It Is if you take enough of it ; but I don't.
It is used to lull pain and to give sleep "

But you shouldn't take it. You had better
lie awake all night than doctor yourself like
that. Why, if you were to take just a little too
much of it, you might never wake up again ! "
cried Geraldine, in great excitement ; and she
thrust a bottle containing strong smelling-salts
close to his nose with violent suddenness,
which recalled to him her tyranny in their childhood,
and set him coughing and choking and
shedding unwilling tears. This result delighted
her. " Now you'll be better!" she triumphantly

declared; and, watching her opportunity, she
applied her terrible remedy again.

But this time he snatched and retained It
with an Interjection which shocked her.

I only did It for your good, you know,"
she explained gently, as she took out his pocket-handkerchief
and affectionately dried his eyes.

"Yes, my dear child ; but I would as soon
be left to drag on a miserable existence as be
killed outright for my good," he objected.

However, his very words showed that he
was better ; and Geraldlne returned to the
charge.

Now you must promise me never to take
morphine or anything of that sort any more,"
said she Imperiously.

I can't promise, so that settles It ! " he
answered doggedly. " Don't you see that I
must know what I want better than you,
Deldee ? I don't take it unnecessarily or without
advice. It Is a doctor who prescribes It
for me."

Geraldlne remembered that the landlady
had spoken of the doctor  spoken of him as
another Mr. Hammond. A sense of the

mystery which surrounded James and his
strange mode of life came upon her again,
and her Imperious manner changed.

"Are you ill, then, James?" she asked
anxiously.

I have been ill ; but I am better now,
dear," he replied, drawing her arm round his
neck and looking up at her affectionately.
Now tell me all about yourself."

'' No, no, no ; there is nothing to tell. I
want to hear about you. When were you
taken 111 ? How long have you been 111 ?
Who "

One at a time, please. I had a fall nearly
two months ago, when I had just come back
to England from  from abroad. I don't quite
know how it happened. I had been dining in
town with a friend, and I fell down the stairs as
we came out "

Ah ! " interrupted Geraldine, shortly.

'* No, I wasn't screwed ; that is the astonishing
part of it. I had drunk very little ; yet,
as I came out, I felt giddy and drowsy, and,
as I tell you, I fell down the stairs. You don't
believe me ? Well, It doesn't matter ; say I

was screwed, If you like. At any rate, in my
fall I sprained my ankle, and  let me see, let
me see  I was put into a cab insensible. I
think I  I must have been insensible when
I fell, for I felt nothing at the time. But
I must have hurt myself seriously, for since
then I have been subject from time to time to
the most violent pains. I had an awful attack
last night  the worst I have ever had ; if I
had been alone, I really think I should have
died. Good Heavens, I can't bear to think

of it ! "

He shuddered, and drew her hand more
closely round his neck.

'' You ought to have had a doctor when you
fell," said Geraldine, whose face was eloquent:
with sympathy and alarm.

So I had. It was a doctor I had been
dining with. He can't think how it happened
himself, for, seeing that I couldn't walk steadily,
he had given me his arm."

'why, he must have let you go!" cried
Geraldine, impetuously.

He didn't mean to ; I'll answer for it. He
is my best friend  my only friend."

'' Is that the man who calls himself your
brother ? " she interrupted quickly.

James, who seemed to be growing drowsy
and stupid again, raised his head and stared
at her.

'' Yes. How did you know ? "

*' From the landlady. Who is he ? "

I tell you  he Is  my best friend  a friend
Who is  devoted to me. I owe him everything
everything ! "

His hand fell from hers, and his head
slipped drowsily on to her shoulder.

James, James ! Don't go to sleep again,
James ! Wake up ! I am going away''

'* Going away ! " he cried loudly, starting up
in his chair and seizing her free hand. " No,
no ; you must not go away ! I have thought
of you and dreamt of you so often. Day after
day and night after night I have seen you
standing beside me as plainly as I see you now.
You said you would come to me, you know 
you said you would come  you said you would
come ! "

'rand I kept my word, you see," she
said, raising his head and speaking close to

his ear to keep his failing attention. " Do you
want me to come again, James ? Shall I come
again ? "

Don't go ! " he whispered back, clinging to
her hands.

But I must go, James. You know I have
a husband now."

For a moment he looked puzzled, then he
murmured 

"Oh, ah, yes, yes  of course, I remember!"
But her words evidently recalled no menace to
his mind.

Shall I come tomorrow and make the
acquaintance of your brother, as you call him ? "

'' Yes, do. Come and thank him for all he
has done for me. What time will you come ?
Come in the afternoon  will you }  and I will
get him to be here to meet you."

"Very well. I will be here about four tomorrow.
Will that do ? "

'eyes. Don't be late; I shall live In a
fever till the time comes, and I can see you
again. Your face is always haunting me, and,
now I have once really seen you and felt the
touch of your hands, I shall not be able to

rest without you. You will come  you won't
forget ? "

'' Forget ! " The tears were in her eyes,
and in his too.

You will kiss me, Geraldine ? "

Five minutes ago she would not have hesitated
to do so ; but those last wild words of his
had frightened her, moved her out of herself

'' Kiss me ! " he repeated.

She stooped and put her lips to his cheek
hurriedly, with a bright blush burning in her
face.

Good-bye ! " she whispered ; and, without
parlor to wait another moment, she fled out
of the room and out of the house.

'geraldine!" he called, but she did not
turn or answer. And all the way to the station,
all the way in the train, through every sound 
the thud of the wheels, the noises of London
she had ringing still in her ears the cr}- 
Geraldine, Geraldine ! "

END OF VOL. II.

PRINTED BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, LIMITED,

LONDON AND Eccles. C. C. d"' Co,

Mm.

frnp/.

wsm

III.

FLORENCE WARDEN,

AUTHOR OF
THE HOUSE ON THE MARSH " AND "AT THE WORLD's MERCY.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

LONDON:
RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON,

ublisfjcrs in ordinary to icr fmajfstg tfjr dwuxi,
1885.

(sall rights reserved')

jr3jL

A DOG WITH A BAD NAME.

CHAPTER I.

As Geraldine returned from her exciting visit
to Chiswick and tried to come to some clear
conclusion upon the strange manner in which
she had discovered James Otway, and the suspicious
circumstances by which he was surrounded,
her fears for him, growing stronger
every moment, at last overcame her self-control
so entirely that, upon arriving at the hotel
where she and Miss Elizabeth were staying,
she was quite unprepared with any reasonable
excuse for her long absence, and ran up to
her room with only the briefest and scantiest
attempt at an explanation. Fortunately, as
she thought, the elder lady did not press her
VOL. III. 39

on the subject, and did not tease her at dinner
by comments on her evident depression. Mrs.
Morrison retired early not to sleep, but to
torture herself again on account of James.

Next morning she professed to be too tired
to go to the riding-school, and at three o'clock
she again slipped out of the hotel and got Into
a hansom. She caught a fast train, which,
leaving Waterloo at 3.25, arrived at 3.47 at
Chiswick, so that she reached Backside Cottages
a few minutes before four.

On the previous day she had been nervous,
anxious, uncertain as to the result of her
journey, doubtful as to the wisdom of her
undertaking It, and she had been on the alert
from the very moment of starting until her
arrival at her destination, lest some spy should
have been set to dog her footsteps ; but to-day
her excitement was far too intense for her to
be able either to watch or listen. In the cabin
the train, on foot, on her way to the riverside,
she was absorbed, to the exclusion of
every other thought and feeling, by a feverish
longing to see James again, to assure herself
that he was still safe. When she reached

Bankside Cottages, and stopped with her hand
upon the gate of No. 5, a late spirit of precaution,
more instinctive than voluntary, made
her glance back along the road by which she
had come ; and, as she did so, her hand fell
down, and a great trembling seized her from
head to foot, for, just coming in sight round
the corner of the road which led from the
station, she saw the short slight figure, more
terrible to her than that of giant or ogre could
have been, of her husband.

For one moment she stood still, unable to
move ; then, glancing at the house again, she
passed on to the next, and stopped before it
and examined it as if in uncertainty. This
manoeuvre she repeated before half a dozen
houses, and at the sixth she came to, which
was No. 10, she opened the gate and walked
boldly up to the door. Having knocked as
loudly and imperatively as she could, being
anxious to get the interview with the person
who should open the door over before her
husband could come up, in a few moments
she heard a shuffling footstep in the passage,
and an old man in slippers, without his coat,

opened the door slowly and looked round it to
answer her.

"Does Mrs. Thompson live here?" asked
Geraldlne, in terror lest she should be answered
in the affirmative. It was the first name that
came into her head, and she dared not hesitate
in order to find a better one.

'' No," said the man, gruffly. '' There's a
Mrs. Tompkins lives round the corner, next
door but one to the Blue Lion."

Oh, thank you ! " said Geraldine, retreating
joyfully.

The man seemed to think her extravagant
satisfaction suspicious, especially as she walked
on, instead of returning towards the station in
the direction he had indicated  for she did not
wish to face her husband just yet ; she proposed
to lead him on a wild-goose chase to take him
off the scent, and in the mean time to prepare
a story which should allay his suspicions.
Unluckily, however, Captain Morrison's essays
as an amateur detective, with which she had
taunted him, had made his sight keen and his
judgment cool. As, under pretence of examining
the exterior of another house, she let her

eyes take in the road along which she had
come, she saw her husband entering a gate.
Looking round, now wholly startled, she found
that it was that of No. 5.

She flew back along the rough pavement,
calling to him without ceremony as soon as she
was near enough, apparently in great surprise.
He pretended not to hear her until he was at
the foot of the steps, when, unable any longer
to plead deafness, he turned impatiently, and,
as she still ran on towards him, walked back to
the gate and waited for her. The expression
of his dark face appalled her ; but she had not
expected pleasant looks, and she did not let
his frowns check the somewhat spasmodic smile
with which she greeted him.

You here, Philip ! I can scarcely believe
my eyes ! What are you doing in this part of
the world ? "

'' I have come here to make a business call,"
said he, quietly. " And you ? "

I came down to see a poor relation of
mine ; but I cannot find her."

Indeed ! I did not know that you knew
of any poor relations."

I call the relations of the Otwayss mine."

So you came down here to see a female
poor relation of the Otwayss ? Well, go on
with your search, my dear ; and then, I think,
when you have found her, or satisfied yourself
that she no longer lives here, you had better
find your way back to the station."

I have satisfied myself that she doesn't
live here ; I have asked everywhere ; so I can
go back now, if you are ready."

I have told you I have an appointment.
Go back to the station and wait for me ; I shall
not be long''

The light died out of her eyes as they met
the steady, remorseless fire of his. Before he
knew what she was going to do, she had
pushed the gate and slipped in beside him.

Who is your appointment with, Philip ? "
she asked, in a very low voice, and white to
the lips.

'' It is with a gentleman  on business, as I
have told you. Now go to the station, and I
will join you in a few minutes."

I will not go till you have told me what
your business is, and with whom it is."

His face grew livid; but he remained perfectly
quiet as he put a strong hand on her arm,
and attempted to lead her towards the gate.

"Philip," said she, shaking from head to foot,
but with a will as firm as his own shining in
her eyes, '' I will not leave this place without
you. I am not strong enough to prevent your
putting me outside the gate, if you chose to
use your muscular force against me ; but, if you
attempt to enter this house without me, I will
scream and shriek and bring the whole neighbourhood
about your ears. That man standing
at his door in his shirt-sleeves well be one of
the first to come  I think, if you wish to
commit murder, you would not chose to have
it accompanied by quite so many vulgar details
as such a scene would entail."

She had felt, as he seized her arm, something
hard in the inside pocket of his overcoat,
and at once guessed that it was a revolver.
Rather than let him enter the house where
James was with that in his possession she
would, at this moment of fierce exaltation, have
shot her husband dead herself with it. Captain
Morrison was not likely to misread the expression

of a spirit so like his own. One flash
of fury from his eyes, one gleam of his white
teeth as his lips parted with a sharp hiss, and
then he met her defiance with an easy coolness
which disarmed and frightened her.

'' Very well ; you must have your own way,
I suppose. I hope you will have the justice to
hold me blameless of the consequences. It is
always a pity when ladies will interfere in
matters of business."

And he walked quickly along the path
and up the steps, and knocked at the door.
Geraldine followed in terror which rendered
her dumb. As soon as Mrs. Hicks appeared,
he stepped in past her. i\s he was speaking to
her, his wife darted into the passage and into
the room on the right, slammed the door, and
turned the key. She saw the dozing figure
in the armchair again ; but without one word,
without a second's pause, she rushed into the
back room and locked the door of that before
she turned to him. When she faced him, he
had started up from his chair, too utterly
surprised to speak.

'' Quick, the window ! " she whispered, pointing

to the back as she re-entered the dark
front room. There came a thud against the
door of the room. She started forward to
force the inert James into action, when, just as
the lock yielded to the pressure put upon it,
and the door flew suddenly open, Geraldine,
with a loud cry, fell back against the folding-doors
and burst into hysterical laughter. The
calm gentleman, who had turned from watching
the frantic vagaries of his lady-visitor to make
a courteous bow to her husband on the somewhat
abrupt entrance of the latter, was not
James at all, but the portly Lindley Fielding.
Glancing from his overwrought and now

o o

sobbing wife to the bland middle-aQed Gentleman
who advanced and flunQf back the foldings
in order to let all the light possible upon
the mysterious scene, the savage little officer
saw that a mistake had been made. Indeed,
Lindley would have been somewhat annoyed
could he have known how promptly Captain
Morrison came to the conclusion that this was
not the man who had supplanted his sister's
husband.

'' To what may I attribute the pleasure of

this visit ? " asked the smiling Lindley, who
had been prepared for Geraldine's coming, but
not for that of her husband, and who indulged
a flattering hope that it was jealousy of himself
which had brought him. Lindley was not
physically a coward, and he was quite prepared
to face any perils which his fascinations might
have brought upon him in a dauntless and
heroic manner.

The answer dashed his hopes to the
ground.

I must apologize for this melodramatic
intrusion," said Captain Morrison, very coldly,
annoyed beyond measure with his wife for
having made him look like a fool. '' I have
been the victim of a mistake, and I can only
repeat that I  I offer you my most sincere
apology."

Pray don't mention it. I can only congratulate
myself upon an accident which has
given me the opportunity of making the
acquaintance of Captain Morrison."

The other looked up in surprise.

'' The late Sir Charles Otway was a cousin
of mine," explained Lindley, 'rand I have had

the pleasure of meeting Mrs. Morrison, when
she was still Miss Lindley, at Waringham Hall."
He spoke with a fatuous affectation of reserve
which neither husband nor wife even noticed.

Geraldine was anxious to bring the interview
to an end, lest her husband might learn
something from this untrustworthy envoy ; for
that Lindley had been placed here to await
her own arrival, with some communication for
her, she could not doubt. But on discovering
that this bland person was a relation of the
Otwayss, Captain Morrison had his suspicions
re-awakened, and became quite as eager as
his wife for a private conversation with him.
Perceiving this, poor Lindley found himself ina
pitiable dilemma  on the one hand, it was
a principle of his to be on good terms with rich
men who could receive him into their houses,
and he was especially anxious to be on good
terms with the tenant of Waringham Hall ; on
the other, he had something very important
to say to Geraldine. Husband and wife both
knew that neither would leave without the
other ; so at last Captain Morrison, Impatient
at this useless delay, said he must return to

town by the 4.38 train. But, before he went,
he gave Mr. Fielding a pressing invitation to
Waringham, and it was arranged that the latter
should arrive at the Hall on the following
Wednesday, to spend the rest of the week
there. Geraldine added cordial and most
sincere entreaties, and then reluctantly went
away with her husband, who kept vigilant
watch upon her, so that she could not exchange
a word with Lindley, unheard by him, until
they were out of the house, when suddenly
crying 

Oh, my purse ! " she turned, and ran back
up the steps to the door where the middle-aged
Adonis was still blandly smiling.

'' Is he safe ?" she asked breathlessly, in a
low voice.

The smile and the colour left his face
together.

I  I hope so. Yes, I think so," said he,
with evident nervousness.

'' Is he here ? "

'' No."

It was lucky that Lindley could give this
answer, for both that and the question which

had called it forth were overheard by Captain
Morrison, who had swiftly returned on the track
of his wife. She let herself be led away without
resistance, with a hopeless expression in her
ejes, which pained while it exasperated him.
They travelled back to town together almost
in silence. The only voluntary attempt at conversation
which Geraldine made was when she
asked suddenly, while they were in the train 

"It was Miss Elizabeth whom, you employed
as a spy upon me, I suppose ? "

Her husband put down the paper he was
pretending to read, and answered shortly 

'' There was no need to employ any one else
to do ' my favourite work ! ' "

Both speeches were the lowest of whispers,
growled across the railway carriage, in the
farther corners of which a middle-aged couple,
long past the bickering period, dozed and
ruminated placidly.

Dinner that evening at the hotel was not
at all a pleasant meal. Geraldine looked upon-her
husband and the steely-eyed old lady asher
gaolers, and fancied she detected looks of
intelligence between them. She left the conversation,

which was neither brisk nor Hvely,
entirely in their hands, and when her husband
asked her if she wished to take any more riding-lessons,
she replied briefly that she had given
up all thought of taking any, and could return
to Waringham as soon as he pleased. Therefore,
it was settled that they should go back to
the Hall on Monday.

The next day being Sunday, Miss Elizabeth
expressed a wish to go to Westminster Abbey,
and Captain Morrison offered to take her,
asking his wife if she would go too.

'' I must, I suppose," said Geraldine, with
submission which had now a new element of
irritation in it. " For you will certainly not
let me remain here without any guard at all ;
and you have not yet succeeded in pressing
Aurelie into your secret service, I think."

This soothing speech was delivered in an
undertone at the window, to which her husband
had followed her as she rose from the luncheon
table.

*' When a man has no firmer footing in his
wife's heart than I have in yours, Geraldine,
he cannot afford to assume airs of security."

Do you expect to make your footing
firmer by treating me like a slave ? " Her
voice was petulant and trembling, her beautiful
eyes were growing dim.

If they had been less beautiful, perhaps
Captain Morrison would have treated this
rather unreasonable outbreak less leniently.
As it was, the little dark-faced man was eaten
up by a yearning to take her into his arms and
forgive her  which was quite the last thing
she would have desired.

You seem to forget you have just deceived
me, Geraldine," said he, raising his eyes askance
to her face in an unconsciously plaintive
manner.

I don't forget it," said she defiantly.
'your marrying me was such a great and
terrible deception that it would outweigh any
amount of deceit I might practise against you."

He raised his eyebrows at this alarming
declaration.

''If you were really to believe that, and
act upon it, our life could hardly fail to be
unhappy," said he, quietly.

I don't care if it is ! "

But I do, and so will you  some day.
You say my marrying you was a deception :
that is not quite correct, for I certainly became,
legally, your husband, and that, with the responsibilities
towards you yourself which it
involved, was all I undertook to do."

You married me for a hateful, inhuman
reason."

But if the human reason has grown up
since, what does that matter ? "

*' It matters a great deal to me. When
you found I would not tell you what you
wanted to know, sou neglected me. It is
only since I have begun to hate you that
this affection of yours has sprung up."

She was looking out of the window, her
cheeks now wet with tears, in utter disregard
of him, and the effect her words might have
upon him. He stepped back from her as if
he had received a blow, and the passionate
longing in his eyes gave place to a more
dangerous look, which she noticed as little.
She was behaving badly, cruelly, and she half
knew it ; but her misery made her reckless,
and she chose, wrong-heavenly, to fancy that

she owed no duty at all to the man who
had married her with a revengeful intention,
ignoring the fact that he had offered to forego
it on one simple condition.

Do you want me to hate you ? " he
asked in a low voice, which made her shudder.

*' Yes," said she, now sobbing outright.
'* Then you will understand my feelings better."

If she had not looked upon him as a
wicked man to whom suffering, if he could
feel such a thing, came but as a just punishment
of his iniquities, she might have relented
when he walked away without another word ;
she might have guessed that even one's duty
to one's neighbour required that such a speech
as she had just made should be a little softened
down. She did give a glance at the door
when she saw that he was going out, and
making a step in that direction she said,
faintly, '' Philip ! " But he took no notice ;
and, of course, if he chose to be sulky instead
of waiting to be half-heartedly apologized toit
was not her fault. And her thoughts flew
back to her anxiety about James ; and she
spent the afternoon in miserable conjectures

VOL. III. U] 40

as to what had become of him, and in passionate
impatience for Lindley's visit to the
Hall on Wednesday, when she hoped to be
able to find out from him what he had meant
by that terribly evasive reply to her question
as to James's safety.

When she met her husband again, at
dinner-time, she felt, without at first troubling
herself much as to the reason, that there was
a change in him. It did not seem to be of
a very ominous kind, but he was more talkative,
he watched her less, he drank more wine
than usual. The alteration in his conduct
grew more marked next day, when, after
putting both ladies into a carriage at Liverpool
Street Station, on their way back to
Norfolk, he left them to themselves, on the
plea that he wanted to smoke. Geraldine
gave a sigh of relief: was he going to leave
her to herself at last ?

It seemed so ; for on that day and the day
following their return she saw less of him than
she had ever seen since their marriage. In
the early days of the honeymoon she had had
his indifferent presence ; since her assumption

of independence she had endured his morose
but attentive presence ; now she scarcely had
to suffer his presence at all. She could not
help being glad of the change ; and, though
her conscience felt uneasy, her mind was too
full of Lindley's expected visit for her to have
much thought to spare upon any other subject.
But on the morning of the day upon which
he was to arrive, she received an unexpected
blow.

A letter from him was waiting for her when
she came down to breakfast, containing the
surprising announcement that unforeseen pressure
of business compelled him to postpone
the pleasure of a visit to Waringham, and
begging her to convey his sincere regrets to
Captain Morrison. This first part of the
letter she read aloud. Then came the portion
which interested her 

I quite forgot, under the exciting circumstances
of the visit with which you and Captain
Morrison honoured me on Saturday, to
mention the fact that our common friend, who
occupied the rooms at Bankside Cottages
before me, has left England for the sake of

his health, under the care of a medical man
In whom the highest confidence may be placed.
The manner of your question on Saturday took
me so much by surprise that I fear I alarmed
you unnecessarily by my reply ; all that I
meant to imply by my hesitating speech, which
seemed to inspire you with so much terror,,
was that our friend, although not absolutely
in bad health, has still, through unfortunate
circumstances in his career to which we need
not more clearly refer, undermined his constitution
in such a manner that the constant
attention of an experienced physician is the
best guarantee we can have for the maintenance
of his strength and for his gradual complete
restoration. I believe you saw him last Friday,,
on which occasion you cannot fail to have been
struck by the change in him, due, I am sorry
to say, for it is better to speak plainly, more
to his obstinate treatment of his maladies by
stimulants and narcotics than to the maladies
themselves. You can understand that such
a patient, enfeebled in mind as well as body
by such an injudicious course of conduct, requires
great tact as well as skill in his medical

attendant ; he is fortunate, however, in having
attracted the disinterested and unwearied attention
of a distinguished physician, to whom it
is but justice to say that our injudicious young
friend has become so much attached that the
best results are to be hoped for from his
trip on the Continent under such happy
auspices."

The letter contained nothing more that was
of interest to Geraldine, who read it to the
end and put it calmly into her pocket, believing
her conduct to be quite unsuspicious, for she
did not know that her face had become so
ghastly white that it was patent to the two
keen watchers at the table  Eleanor never
came down to breakfast  that she had suffered
some great shock. Still confident, and singing
as she went to disarm suspicion should it have
arisen, she went into the drawing-room after
breakfast to fulfil her first morning task of
examining the flowers ; but no sooner was she
alone, shut in the big cold room where nobody
was likely to disturb her, than she sank down
on a chair beside the little table which generally
had her first care, and laid her head on her

hands beside the bowl of cameUIas and ferns
which her overflowing eyes could not see.

And I can do nothing  nothing ! " she
sobbed to herself, just above her breath ; and
then she sprang up with a start, and dried her
eyes, and upset the bowl of flowers in nervous
haste to be busy, as she heard some one open
the door. Her heart sank as she recognized
her husband's step without looking round.
He stopped before he had come very near
her.

I wish to see that letter, Geraldine."

Her hands became suddenly still ; she did
not ask what letter he meant this time.
Finding her way to her pocket with fingers
that shook so much that for some moments
they were literally unable to feel the folds of
her gown, she brought out at last, with both
hands, everything her pocket contained, and
held all submissively towards him. Her terror,
as she stood before him, shaking like a leaf,
was pitiable to see. It infuriated him.

'* Give me the letter ! I only want the
letter ! "

Take it, please ; I can't see."

It was true ; the tears were falling fast from
her eyes and blinding her. He snatched the
letter he wanted, and she sank down again on
the chair beside the table, and waited. While
he was reading, she had time to collect her
thoughts. The letter, she knew, could not put
him on the track of James, and, though it told
him that Lindley Fielding could do so, he had
certainly guessed that already ; but it could
not fail to make his watch over herself closer,
and so hamper whatever efforts she could
make on James's behalf The few moments
of anxious waiting while her husband read the
letter in silence were agonizing ; the worst
was over as soon as he spoke, and she could
answer him.

*' So this is the drunken blackguard whom
you will lie and trick your husband and risk
your reputation to go and see ! "

This angry opening braced Geraldine to the
conflict, and she answered quietly and most
unexpectedly 

'eyes."

You have singular taste."

'taste! No. No man could be less to

my taste than the man I deceived you to go
and see the other day."

Then the pleasure of the expedition lay
in the fact that it was against my wishes ? "

There was no pleasure in it. I went to
learn Whether he was safe ; I did not even
expect to see him."

But you expected to see him when I met
you. You knew he was safe then ; your
second visit only put him in danger."

She had no answer for that ; she hardly
knew herself why she had been so rashly,
madly anxious to see him again.

'* You love him ; it is of no use for you to
deny it."

I don't deny it. I love him just as you
love the sister who has brought shame to your
family. To see him, as I saw him on Friday,
ill, sleepy, stupid, scarcely able to understand
or answer me, makes me love him neither
more nor less. If I saw him for the first
time now, I should be disgusted ; but he used
to be kind to me, and I can never forget it."

She finished her speech very quickly, afraid
of her voice giving way.

Most touching loyalty In a woman who is
perpetually deceiving her husband ! "

I shouldn't deceive you, if you were
human. But when you have declared that
your chief purpose In life is to hunt down a
man who is already persecuted and driven and
ruined, it is no wonder I take his part against
you. Oh, Philip, he is broken down and ill !
Are you not satisfied ? "

If she could have asked him this question
with her arms round his neck, he would have
been able to answer with truth that he was ;
and that what had been his chief purpose in
life two months ago was so no longer. But
she sat before him, hard and bitter in her
misery, speaking earnestly indeed, but with
the despairing earnestness of one who strives
to make an impression upon a feared and
hated tyrant or taskmaster. Neither revenge
nor jealousy could be conquered like that ;
and he answered with an outbreak of passion.


No ; I am not satisfied. If I believed you,
perhaps I might be ; but a woman who deceives
her husband flagrantly twice in the course of a

week is not to be trusted. How am I to know
that this letter was not concocted between you
and the man I saw on Saturday, on purpose to
mislead me, to work upon my pity for a wretch
who ought to be outside the pale of your
sympathy  a murderer, a seducer, a helpless,
hopeless drunkard ? "

Geraldine could not bear this. She started
up, as angry as he.

Believe what you like ! Believe that weare
all three in a vile conspiracy against you ;
then you can abuse us all together, accuse us
all together, and get rid of us all together !
Nothing short of that will content you  orme
! " And she fled along the room to the
door, and left him.

Later in the morning, Geraldine heard her
husband giving orders for the phaeton to be
brought round, and she felt rather frightened
when, half an hour afterwards, she saw him
driving down towards the lodge, with his own
man at the back beside the groom. She was
in the conservatory, and she opened the outer
door to watch, wondering what this meant.
Then she heard a step behind her, and, turning,

found the old butler, with his eyes gravely
bent on the salver in his hand.

'' The captain desired me to give you this,
ma'am, as soon as he was gone."

Geraldine took the note, and stood playing
with it for some minutes before she opened it
That its contents were of momentous interest
she was sure  that it was a farewell she
guessed. The phaeton was out of sight before
she read it.

'' Dear Geraldine,

I have done what 3/'ou have at last
confessed, after implying it a long time, is
the only thing to content you  I have rid you
of my presence. It is not my fault that I
have not been able to please you in any other
way. You are always taunting me with my
motive in marrying you, and declaring that I
sacrificed you in my wish for revenge. Has
it ever occurred to you to analyze your own
motives for marrying me ? If you will do so,
I think you will find that you were moved by
pique, or ennui, or some other feeling quite unconnected
with me and my personal qualities ;

Otherwise your indifference would never have
turned to dislike so easily  I repeat so easily,
for the discovery of my intentions towards the
man who had brought dishonour upon my
family would have led a dutiful wife to entreaty,
but not to rebellion. I admire high
spirit, luckily for you, for it has led me to put
up with conduct which few husbands would
have endured for a day ; but you have gone
too far. It is beneath my dignity to quarrel
with you ; I simply leave you to yourself. I
can amuse myself better in town than in the
society of a woman who makes none of the
efforts a wife is bound to make to please her
husband. You can say I have gone hunting,
as I shall probably run down to Melton to
finish the week's enjoyment from which your
vagaries called me back. You are mistaken
in thinking I am jealous ; I should not condescend
to be jealous of the contemptible
hound whom you might have saved, if you
had chosen, from the consequences of my oath,
which I am now free to fulfil  which I will
fulfil ! What the result to myself may be I do
not care ; it will be more interesting to you, as

I believe you would thank the gallows for
ridding you of your husband,

Philip Gordon Morrison.
"Pes.  You can address to the Charing
Cross Hotel, if I am wanted."

Geraldine read this letter, and shuddered at
the menace it contained to James ; but she had
not enough sympathy with the writer to read
between the lines, to understand the pain which
made the proud man inconsistent, to guess at
the yearning which prompted the bathos of
the postscript. The little sting of conscience
which that question as to her motives in
marrying caused her for the first time was
forgotten before she had read the letter to
the end.

She could not bear her miserable anxiety
in inaction, but went to her room, refused the
services of sympathetic, curious Aurelie, and,
dressing hastily, escaped out of the house to
find relief in a long walk. She saw Elizabeth
watching her departure from one of the drawing-room
windows, and, on her return, discovered
that lady's sharp eyes fixed upon her over the

hedge and \yire fence which shut in the park on
the east side. The suspicion that this espionage
was not accidental rose in Geraldine's
mind, and was confirmed before the day was
over ; for Elizabeth, having expressed a wish
to accompany her in her usual drive, was
evidently disconcerted when Geraldine, at the
last moment, drew back on the plea of headache.
And, when the elder lady brought back
the letters from the Goldborough post-office,
she re-directed those for Captain Morrison
without having to ask his wife for his address.
So Geraldine asked the old butler whether his
master had left a note for Miss Elizabeth as
well as for herself.

No, ma'am. The captain was with Miss
Elizabeth in the study for about half an
hour just before he started," replied Johnson,
delighted to have this opportunity of putting
his young mistress on her guard against the
household bogey, whom he considered to be in
league with the unpopular master against her.

Then Geraldine was satisfied ; and she
returned to the drawing-room bright eyed,
animated, her depression of the morning quite

gone. For, as a relief from the hopeless, helpless
despair about James which had paralyzed
her, she had now the stimulating feeling that
she was being watched, that the tiger had withdrawn
in order to make a better spring : and
the wicked spirit of the baby-waif, which the
Misses Gretton had worked so hard to crush,
rose up in the young wife as she clenched her
teeth and told herself that, if that elderly lady
with the hasp-like mouth and steely blue eyes
really had undertaken the task of mounting
guard over her, she should find the occupation
more onerous than she had expected.

CHAPTER II.

In pursuance of her mischievous intention
of defeating the vigilance of her custodian,
Geraldine ordered the carriage early on the
following morning, and drove some distance
before she got out, sent it home, and returned
herself on foot. This piece of devilry produced
the result she desired. Elizabeth was evidently
disturbed, and her anxiety was increased when
Mrs. Morrison said that the barouche would beat
the disposal of the elder ladies in the afternoon,
as she wanted Aurelie with her in the
brougham.

Do you think Captain Morrison would
approve of your going about in this manner
with no one but a silly little maid ? " Elizabeth
asked, with very tightly drawn lips, at luncheon.

''Oh, if he finds anything to disapprove of

in the report of my conduct, he can come back
and look after me himself, Aunt Elizabeth," she
answered sweetly, but with a meaning perfectly
clear.

And the elder lady did not continue the
subject.

So Geraldine went off again after luncheon,
and spent the afternoon at Goldborough, in
shopping and among the books at the public
library. She succeeded in tiring herself out so
thoroughly by excitement and restless activity
that, on her return, she was glad to lie back in
the carriage with closed eyes ; and, when she
arrived at the Hall, her head ached so badly
that she lay down on her bed, and sent Aurelie
to Miss Eleanor for her celebrated lotion, a
request for which always pleased the old lady.
It was some time before the maid returned, and,
Avhen she did so, she was in a state of great
excitement, and could only speak in mysterious
hissing whispers, which irritated her mistress
beyond endurance.

What is it, Aurelie ? Don't whisper like
that. If you have anything to say, do say it
aloud."

VOL. III. 41

"Ah, mats madame est souffrante  Je nose
pas

*' Go on, go on ! What is it ? "

And AureHe, without being able, however,
to give up the mysterious whisper which added
so much to the effect of her story, told that
Johnson, the butler, had received a warning
from one of the keepers to keep a good lookout
for the safety of the strong-room, as 
persons had been seen about
the park that afternoon. Geraldine started
up, moved by a score of wild fears that chased
each other in her fatigued and over-excited
brain. At that moment the dinner-bell rang,
and she had to go downstairs and listen to
Eleanor whimpering terrors and Elizabeth's
scornful incredulity, for the story had reached
their ears. She said little about it herself ;
but, when dinner was over, she asked the
butler from which of the keepers he had
received the warning.

*' From Robert Davis, ma'am," said he.

Davis was one of the younger keepers, and
he lived with his old mother in a cottage a
few yards up the road, above the outer gate

of the park wood. Geraldine ran upstairs, put
on a hat and mantle, and went out through the
dining-room Into the conservatory, the outer
door of which was locked with the key Inside.
She went out, locked It behind her, and put
the key Into her pocket. She was not a
coward, and the Idea of crossing the garden
and wood alone at night, with the possibility
of dangerous characters lurking about, did not
occur to her as alarming. She was anxious
to learn from Davis exact particulars of what
he had seen, free from the exaggerations of
the servants. It was a misty night, and a
light rain was falling ; but it was not too
dark for her to find her way across the lawn
and through the rose garden into the grass
walk. It was not until then, when she found
herself shut in between two high walls of evergreens,
alone In the darkness and the silence,
that a sense of the risk she was running
suddenly touched her Imagination, exalted by
excitement, and made her start at a faint sound
of the wind among the trees round the hidden
pond on her left hand.

She stopped, not so much frightened as

fascinated, listening to that faint sighing of

the night-breeze among the bare branches,.

and fancying that the weak call of a human

voice mingled with it. This fancy, fantastic

as it was, took hold upon her in her feverish

state of mind, and led her to part the crisp

branches of the laurels, and to force her way

through to the edge of the pond, which lay

all in black shadow before her, a dark and

treacherous pit, as her feet sank in the slimy

earth of its banks. Deep enough to drown a

man, they said ; and so to still all pain, and

calm all fever, and stop the gnawing, aching,

never-satisfied longing for rest, and peace, and

forgetfulness. It was a dangerous moment for

the weary, feverish, excited woman, whose

over-strained imagination pictured to her, from

morning till night, a terrible scene, in which

her husband's hand should be raised against

the life of the wretched man who, in boyhood,.

had been her playfellow, while she stood

powerless to stay him.

She drew near to the green, slimy surface
of the water, nearer than she thought, for her
foot slipped downwards towards it, giving hera

slight shock as she drew it back. At that
moment the cloud, which had darkened the
face of the moon, passed, the black expanse
before her grew more defined, and, out of the
haze which hung over the water, Geraldine
seemed to see a figure rise up, with haggard
face and staring eyes, and seemed  to hear a
voice calling her by name. With a cry, she
shrank back among the trees, and crept out,
shuddering, into the grass path, down which
she ran like the wind. For she would not
turn back, though it required all her courage
to face the terrors the path through the wood
had for her after the shock that terrible phantom
had given her ; for, though the vision had
been dim, and the cry a faint and ghostly cry,
yet it seemed to her that the figure was James's
figure and the voice James's voice, and she
said to herself that at that moment he had died.
She reached Robert Davis's cottage, looking
scarcely alive, so white and weak was she when
old Mrs. Davis opened the door and found
her leaning against the side of the porch. Her
errand was a vain one after all, for Robert was
out on his rounds ; so, leaving the message

8 A DOG WITH A BAD NAME.

that he was to come up to the Hall in the
morning and ask to see her, she returned
through the crackling branches of the wood,
and over the damp, soft carpeting of the
grass-walk, without one look to right or left,
and darted into the conservatory with a
feeling of relief which she would not own.
She locked the door carefully, and then, hearing
voices inside the house, waited to recover
complete composure before she went in.

As she entered the dining-room, she heard
sobs and hysterical cries and a clamour of
voices ; the door was open, and in the inner
hall beyond was a group of excited, frightened
maids, in the midst of whom stood Johnson,
armed with some kind of unserviceable-looking
firearm, looking very valiant. Elizabeth was
questioning the cook in a sharp voice ; Eleanor
was moaning on the upper flight of the staircase,
listening to the tumult below, supported
by Aurelie and the older ladies-maid.

Geraldine's appearance was greeted by a
chorus of shrieks.

Where have you been ? Aurelie said
your were in your room, and that you had

locked the door and would not open it," said
Elizabeth, in a sharper voice than ever.

I have only been in the garden for a few-minutes.
What is all this scene about ? "

Two or three accounts were offered at once,
all unintelligible. Elizabeth quenched this
outburst.

They say there are thieves in the house.
Martha was going to lock the back door for
the night, when, opening it to look out, three
men ran in past her  so she says  knocking
her down and causing her to scream. One
of the men was seen by the cook, who ran
out of the servants' hall on hearing Martha's
cries. But they cannot be found anywhere,
and so the tale seems difficult to believe."

*' So I should think," said Geraldine, impatiently,
rather anxious to show some valour,
to clear herself in her own eyes of the charge
of letting her imagination run away with her.
Davis's story has turned everybody's head.
Have you searched the house, Johnson ?"

'' Yes, ma'am ; I've looked everywhere, and
I can find no trace of anybody."

'' Ah, so I expected ! And I can trust

your evidence. Mrs. Marston, I think you
must have been mistaken. Martha, I am
Inclined to think Joe, or one of the stablemen,
must have played you a trick. I think you
may all go to bed in peace." Then, turning
to Johnson, '' Perhaps Thomas had better
sleep downstairs to-night ; he is not afraid,
is he?"

Not he, ma'am. But burglars might dance
on his bed and he'd never wake up. I'll sleep
downstairs too, ma'am, and my old ears and
his young arms would settle a troop of them."

Martha was here brought forward to show
her bruises In evidence, and to repeat more
faintly that, if there wasn't three of them, there
was two ; and, If there wasn't one, how could
she have been knocked down ? And she
added that her assailant was not Joe, or anyone
she had ever seen before ; she saw his
face quite plainly, and she would know him
again anywhere ; he was tall, and his face was
quite white, and there was a mark of blood
on his lip.

But this was so evidently an attempt to
add to the effect of the tale of violent assault

hy garnishing with details borrowed from the
ordinary ghost-story, that it did not strengthen
the kitchen-maid's case at all ; and she and
her supporters, finding the story discredited by
the authorities, had to retire somewhat crestfallen
to bed, mounting the stairs in a staggering
phalanx, with starts and cries more or less suppressed
at every step, and much spilling of
candle grease. Then Geraldine bade goodnight
to the old ladies, but did not at once
follow them upstairs. As soon as she heard
the keys turn in the locks of their doors, she
turned to the old butler, to whom she had
signed to remain with her, and asked quietly 

Is there anything in the story ? "

'' I don't know, ma'am. There were marks
of a man's boots in our passage ; but I can't
follow them over the carpet of the hall. I
didn't say anything about them, because the
women, uneducated women like that, ma'am,
are such fools."

We'll go once round the place ; but I'll
give you Sir Charles's revolver first."

She led the way into the library, took the
revolver from the drawer in which it was

kept, and handed it to the old soldier, who
had cleaned it many a time in the days gone
by. He took it reverently, with moistened
eyes.

"Is it loaded?"

'' Yes, ma'am."

Then they started on their search, examined
every nook and cranny in the big rooms and
the wide halls on the ground-floor, Geraldine
holding the lights with perfectly steady hands ;
for, now that she knew there was danger to
be faced, she was calm and mistress of herself.
At last, on the back staircase, they found a
faint footprint, and the old servant looked up
at his young mistress significantly.

Upstairs, ma'am," said he.

So they went up very softly, afraid lest a
sound should raise again that cackling female
chorus ; but the maids' quarters were faraway,
and the women where whispering and
chattering and shivering much too busily to
hear a louder noise than any made on that
silent search.

They did not open the door of the room
where Geraldine herself slept, which was the

first they came to on reaching the top of the
stairs. It was too small to harbour a robber
or to attract his notice, and nothing of value
was kept there.

Is it worth while searching upstairs,
Johnson?" she asked, In a whisper, when
they had got to the head of the back staircase
again.

*' Just as you please, ma'am ; but I think
you may leave that to me."

Very well, then. Take one of these.
Good night."

He had taken the candle she held out, and
Geraldlne had turned the handle of her own
door, when suddenly she drew back and
summoned the servant, with a gesture and a
startled face. The door was locked. Johnson
stepped forward and tried It sharply, with no
result. He stooped down and examined it.

** The key is in the lock, ma'am, on the
inside. Perhaps it is only Aurelie, who has
locked herself in in a fright. If you can give
me a hairpin, I will have it open in no time."

Geraldlne gave him one, and, after a fev/
minutes' work on his knees, the old servant

rose and softly turned the door handle ; the
door was open.

'' Shall I go In, ma'am ? You had better
let me. There Is no light inside."

Take care, then  take care. Hadn't we
better call Thomas ? "

'* No, ma'am ; there Is no need for that,"
replied the old soldier ; and, with the light held
high In his left hand and the revolver ready in
his right, he pushed open the door and entered.

The savage "Ah!" which escaped his lips
as he did so brought Geraldlne quickly In after
him. She was no coward ; but she uttered a
cry as she saw kneeling beside her bed a man
with his head bent down on his hands. The
butler, who had thrust his candle down upon
the mantelpiece, had his left hand upon the
intruder's collar, when his mistress's exclamation
caused him to turn round. Her eyes were
fixed upon the culprit, who uttered no sound
and made no movement. She crept forward
slowly, step by step, her face wild with surprise
and doubt and terror, until she was close beside
him ; then, stooping, while the old butler
watched her in perplexity, but with a stronghold

kept on his captive, she stretched out one

hand slowly until it touched the still bent head

of the kneeling man  then she moved nearer

and nearer, and lowered her own face, still

rigid with fright, until in the flickering candlelight

she could see his. But as she met the
 >

horrible gaze of staring sightless eyes, she fell
back with a moan of anguish.

Oh, Heaven ! he is dead ! James, James ! '"
And the startled servant involuntarily moved
the hand by which he held his prisoner, and
drew him backwards and caught sight of the
face himself. And he too saw that the wicked
thief they had been pursuing was his old
master s nephew, who had found his way, when
exile and sickness had paid for his misdeeds,
back to his old room in Waringham Hall
to die.

CHAPTER III.

For a few moments the kneeling figure was
hardly more still than the two living, breathing
occupants of the room, who stood horror-struck
by their discovery, fascinated by the terrible
sight, speechless and motionless beside him.
But both lady and soldier-servant were by
nature and habit too energetic to remain long
paralyzed even by a calamity so terrible. The
old butler raised James's arm, which had fallen
heavily down as his body was moved backwards
from the bed, felt his pulse, and put
his hand over his heart, to learn whether he
still breathed.

We must send for a doctor, ma'am ; I can't
tell whether he is alive or dead."

This suggestion that there was still hope
roused Geraldine at once from her stupor of

horror. But at the same moment there rushed
into her mind a vivid sense of the perils which
hung over the unfortunate man while he remained
under this roof, with the spy Elizabeth
ready to inform Captain Morrison of all that
took place there.

'' Stay with him, do what you can ; but
don't call any one while I go to fetch Mr.
Crosse," she impressed upon the old man.
And she fled downstairs and out of the house
to beg their old neighbour and friend to come
and help her.

Mr. Crosse was still up, beating his wife
at bezique, as he had done now nearly every
night for the last eight years. Geraldine did
not tell him who it was for whom she so
urgently begged his help, until they were
crossing the park together. She was holding
this hand to hurry him along, and, as she ran
'to keep pace with his strides, she whispered
breathlessly, " Mr. Crosse ! "

'eyes, my dear."

'' The man  the man  I want you to see
is James  James Otway."

James ! Dear me ! Why didn't you say

SO before ? When did he arrive ? What an.
extraordinary thing ! "

'' Yes, more extraordinary than you think.
But it is a secret ; if my husband were to
hear of it, it wouldn't be of much use for you
to save his Hfe."

The doctor looked grave. Her extraordinary
earnestness, James's arrival during her
husband's absence, could suggest but one conclusion.
But she poured out her words without
noticing the effect this opening had upon
him.

There is some mystery about his coming.
I don't think he can have been in his right
senses when he came ; for he crept in by the
back door, just as they say he used to do when
he was a child and had been out late in the
woods, and he was found kneeling in the room
which used to be his, just as if he had knelt
down to say his prayers as he used to do
when a boy."

The simple manner in which she related
this, with the tears running down her cheeks,,
reassured the old gentleman, while it perplexed
him still further.

'what makes you think Captain Morrison
would treat him inhospitably ? "

He thinks James has behaved badly to
a member of his family," said she, hesitatingly.

'rand is it true?"

Oh, I don't know ; but I'm  I'm afraid
it is ! "

"Well, really, young Otway runs atilt at the
Decalogue with an audacity one is forced to
admire. I should have thought that a man
with the fear of the police before his eyes
would have kept himself straight, at least,
for a year or two ; but here he is, not yet
nine months escaped from prison, with another
crime on his head already ! Curious, very
curious ! Such a nice gentle lad as he was
too, the very last person one would have
thought capable of such a crime as murder ! "

Sh  , Mr. Cross ! I cannot bear it."

They had reached the Hall, the front door
of which Geraldine had left open, so that they
might enter quietly and without delay. At
the head of the staircase they were met by
Johnson, who led the way, not towards the
room where James had been found, but towards

VOL. III. 42

the now disused bachelors' wing, at the door
of which stood Thomas, the young footman,
who had only been in the family since the
establishment of the new menage at the Hall.

'' Thomas and me have removed the thief
to the third room in the east wing, ma'am,"
said the butler, gravely. '' I don't think he is
dead, sir."

Geraldlne started at the daring suggestion
this speech contained. Would it be possible
to keep the Identity of the intruder a secret,
if he recovered, until he was safely out of the
house ? She said nothing, and Mr. Crosse
said nothing, until they reached the musty dismantled
room, to which, nearly twenty years
ago, the baby Geraldlne had been carried by
James, her boy-lover.

Twenty years of decay and neglect had
done their work on the disused room. The
carpet, not good enough to be saved, was now
a damp and mouldy rag, with pitfalls for the
feet and holes that showed the rotten boards
beneath. The ceiling was dark with stains,
the paper on the wall on one side of the
window had peeled quite away, and now hung

curled downwards towards the floor, showing
the wall it had covered. The grate and bars
of the fireplace were red with rust ; what
furniture was left In the room was dingy, dusty,
worm-eaten. A lamp and three candles were
on the coverless dressing-table by the bedstead
; on the latter a mattress, dragged hastily
out of the cupboard, had been flung; and,
stretched upon this mean couch, his head raised
by a sofa-cushion from the old schoolroom,
was the luckless heir of the Otwayss, cold, still,
to all appearance dead, safe in the home of
his boyhood only so long as he could pass fora
thief.

It was a strange situation, and seemed to
Geraldine most piteous.

'' Oh, not here ! How could you bring
him here ! " she broke out, with a sob, as soon
as she crossed the threshold into the prison-like
room, the air of which made her shiver.

I thought it was good enough for a
burglar, ma'am, dead or alive," said Johnson,
raising his eyes with one respectful, warning
look.

For the astonished and curious footman

UBRARV

m/Btsanofwumm

was outside the door, and within hearing;
Geraldine shuddered and was silent, while.
Crosse went straight to the bedside
glanced at the prostrate man, snatched up a
candle, bent down over him face to face, raised
the closed eyelids, and looked at the pupils
of the eyes, and turned quickly to the butler.

"Has that young man outside got a good
head on his shoulders ? "

Pretty fair, sir."

Then call him in." Mr. Crosse meanwhile
took out his pocket-book, tore a leaf
from it, and wrote a few words in pencil on the
paper, which he handed to the footman. '' Goto
my house, ask to see Mrs. Crosse, say I
sent you, and give her this. Bring back what
she gives you as quickly as possible."

Before the servant was out of the room,
Mr. Crosse turned to the bed, sioninor to
the old butler to help him, and between them
they raised the prostrate man, and with some
difficulty set him on his feet, supporting him
by their own shoulders. But to get him to
move was a more difficult matter.

*' Here, James, my man, wake up and step

out. James, I say, are you going to sleep ?
Rouse yourself, man, pull yourself together,
and come along with us."

The young man raised his head with a
grumbling sigh, kept his eyes vacantly open
for a few moments, and closed them again.

Speak to him, my dear."

Geraldine came forward, lifted his drooping
head between her hands, and called to him.
But it was of no use ; he opened his eyes
again drowsily, but did not seem to know her.

'will you go and order a bath to be
brought in here and some warm water ? And
can you have some strong coffee made ? You
can trust old Mrs. Symes, I am sure. And
in a case like this I don't think she would
stand on her dignity."

Geraldine knew that ; the question was
whether, called up in the middle of the night,
the old lady could stand upon her feet. However,
she ran up to the housekeeper's bedroom,
entrusted her with the appalling secret that
Sir James was the burglar, and that he was
dying downstairs, and entreated her assistance,
Mrs. Symes was a terrible person to have to

deal with In an emergency ; she pottered, she
dawdled, she stopped in the midst of dressing
to say, " Well, I never ! "  she paused on her
way downstairs to wonder whether it would
not be better to go back and lock her door.
If Geraldine had not feared the havoc her
inexperience might work, she would have
braved the descent alone into the servants'
region herself, and trusted to Providence to
help her there. As it was, she put the tottering
and exhausted Mrs. Symes upon a chair and
followed her directions. The fires were still
alight and the coffee was soon made ; the footman,
having returned with the tartar emetic
for which he had been sent, now came down
for the hot water. Mrs. Symes, being by this
time in full possession of the utmost amount
of energy and wakefulness of which she was
capable, sent her mistress to her room, and
took the coffee herself up to the east wing,
promising to report upon the patient's condition.


Later in the nioht Geraldine knocked at
the door of the sick-chamber, and after a fev/
moments Johnson let her through.

How is he ? "

"He is better, ma'am. He has been very

sick "

Oh, poor fellow ! "

It was what Mr. Crosse wanted, ma'am.
Sir James had poisoned himself, accidentally
no doubt, and "

Poisoned himself! Ah  with laudanum ? "

'' Morphine, I believe Mr. Crosse said,
ma'am. He has found something which had
contained it in Sir James's coat pocket. Shall
I tell Mr. Crosse you wish to speak to him,
ma'am ? " he added, as Geraldine leant against
the wall, too much stupefied to speak.

Yes."

When Mr. Crosse came out, she rallied her
energies and said faintly 

Is it true ? Was it  poison ? "

*eyes, practically. He had over-dosed
himself for something ; we will find out for
what tomorrow, for he is not quite himself
yet. But you can go to bed with a quiet mind
now, my dear lady, for he is as well as any
fool can expect to be who drugs himself
without proper advice."

'' But he had advice ; he is living under the
supervision of a doctor."

A doctor ! Not much of a doctor, if he
had anything to do with the dose James
swallowed to-day; a chemist's errand-boy
perhaps."

Geraldine did not answer ; but her features
had suddenly contracted with some thought
full of horror. Mr. Crosse wanted her to go
away, but she was not satisfied yet.

What is he laughing about ? I can hear
him laughing and calling out. Is he in pain ?
He must be in pain to cry out like that*'

Yes, yes ; but that is for a different
reason altogether. He has been lying down
on the wet ground somewhere, and he has
got rheumatism in consequence. His head is
not quite right yet, so he doesn't bear a few
twinges as quietly as he might."
May I see him ? "
Not to-night."
"Will he die?"

** Die ! No, certainly not. He will have a
bad cold, but that is no more than he deserves
for his foolishness ; and tomorrow we will call

him to account. But, if you don't go to bed at
once, I'll write and tell Captain Morrison to "

'' Don't ! " cried she, shuddering. " I am
going. Thank you a thousand times for what
you have done, what you are doing. But the
thought of his lying there In that cold bare
room among the r-r-rats and the m-m-mlce is
so dreadful ! " she sobbed.

'' Well, the r-r-rats and the m-m-mice won't
be able to eat him up to-night, for Johnson and
Mrs. Symes are going to watch by him, and
he's got a fire and plenty of light, and he'll be
as comfortable as a king, more comfortable
than any burglar deserves to be. By-the-by,
hadn't you better give up the burglar notion
and make a clean breast of it, my dear lady ?
Forgive me for advising you, but I knew your
guardian so many years that I don't like to seethe
little lady he loved like his own daughter
doing anything that seems rash ; and some
husbands make the deuce of a row about a
trifle of this sort."

But Captain Morrison wouldn't think
James a trifle, Mr. Crosse," said she, with a
strained and awkward effort to speak lightly.

But the attempt broke down, and, to his
astonishment, her whole face began to quiver
with suppressed agony which would find its
way out. He led her gently towards the outer
door of the wing ; but there she stopped, and,
gasping for breath, turned to face him. '' I
must tell you, I must tell you ! " she whispered
hoarsely. " Nobody else can help me, nobody
else can save him. Mr. Crosse, James did
not try to poison himself; you think he did,
but it is not so. He has two enemies; but
one of them is human, and half warned me
when I last saw him, that James was in-danger
 that one is Lindley Fielding ; but
the other is a fiend," she went on, panting,
hissing out her words in fiery haste. ''He
has sworn  sworn to my face  to hunt James
down and to kill him ; he has hired some one
to poison him, I am sure of it. Yes, yes ; he
is treacherous, he has already proved that he
will use any meals, however base ; and this is
his work, I know."

Well, whose work ? " asked Mr. Crosse,,
seeing it was impossible to check the torrent of
her impetuous accusation.

Captain Morrison's  my husband's."

The old gentleman started, with a great
shock.

My dear Mrs. Morrison, think what you .
are saying. You really must not let your
tongue run away with you like that ! "

I would not say it to any one but you,"
she assured him, forcing herself to speak very
quietly ; " but I must tell you, or you will not
understand the situation. He has employed
some one  I don't yet know who  to make
away with James. I don't ask you to believe
me, but only to remember what I say tomorrow
when you are questioning James as
to the way he got into the state in which we
found him."

But it is simply too preposterous ! You
forget where you are, and who your husband
is, my dear lady. Crimes do get committed in
this nineteenth century of ours, but not in quite
such a simple-minded fashion as that. Captain
Morrison is an English gentleman, and a soldier
besides. It is conceivable that he, like other
fiery-tempered men, might kill a man in a
moment of passion ; but the idea of his hiring

a bravo to do a ' deed of vengeance ' Is just
about as funny as it would be for me to go
about In a long gown trimmed with pictures
of devils, and say that I cured people, or
made them worse, as the case might be, by
incantations over a caldron."

But Geraldine was past listening to reason ;
and he saw that if he talked till the next
morning she would not be convinced that her
revelation was absurd. So he persuaded her
to go to bed, and told her he would be sure
not to let her husband know who the burglar
was, if he could help it. And then he went
back to have a last look at James, who had
been allowed to go to bed. The young man
was getting feverish, and was talking to Mrs.
Symes, who sat in the room, In a confused and
wandering manner, at one moment seeming to
know who she was, while the next he called
her " old fellow," and asked her if she would
'' go for a pull as far as Kew ? " Mrs. Symes
was not a bad nurse, having fortunately passed
sixty-five years of life without contracting any
opinions of her own ; therefore, after giving her
such Instructions as were necessary, and having

warned the butler, who was to sleep in the next
room, to be on the alert, as the patient might
get restless and troublesome, Mr. Crosse left
the house and returned to his own home.

Geraldine heard the doctor go downstairs
attended by the butler, heard Johnson creep
softly up again, and she slipped out of her
room and joined him at the door of the west
wing. He started when, pulling the door open,
he saw his 3oung mistress pass quickly through
and stop outside the third room, listening to
the rambling talk of the sick man. However,
after a moment's hesitation, he drew the bolt
of the door, to shut out the one person they
all feared, and retired to the room in which he
was to rest until summoned by the housekeeper
to take her place. Through the wall he could
hear James's deep voice uttering curiously
childish words.

Do you think Uncle Charles will be very
angry, Mrs. Symes ? Will he send her away ?
Do you think he will send her away to punish
me ? Do you  do you think so, Mrs. Symes?"

Geraldine, who had pushed the door ajar,
could see the poor old woman sitting by the

fire turn her head slowly towards the bed
with open mouth and eyes round with dull
consternation.

'' I think you had better  try  to go to
sleep, sir," she urged slowly, with laborious
respectfulness most unlike her attitude towards
him in the old days which he, in his delirium,
was living over again.

He understood the words, and answered
her, " No, I can't go to sleep; I can't help thinking
about the little thing, and I want to know
what Uncle Charles is going to do with her. If
he doesn't let me keep her, I shall run away.
If he lets Mr. Corby n have her, I shall go and bea
poacher, and marry her when I grow up ; and,
if Mr. Corby n lets her go to the workhouse, I'll
pretend I'm a tramp and go to the workhouse
too.  Oh ! " he cried, with an exclamation of
pain. " I must have caught cold sitting in that
shed ; I keep having such pains in my arms
and back. Do you think she has caught cold,
Mrs. Symes ? " he asked anxiously.

'' Who, sir ? "

'' You know, you know. The little baby 
my baby that I found in the shed. Where is

she ? What has become of her ? " he asked,
with a sudden doubt.

Mrs. Symes hesitated. But a plain question
demanded a plain answer, and at last she
faltered 

She's grown up, sir, and  and married."

What ? " cried James.

"Hush, sir. You know it quite well; at
least, you will tomorrow morning when you
are quite yourself! Now you had better drink
this and go to sleep."

'' Yes, I'll go to sleep ; but let me see the
baby first, Mrs. Symes. Uncle Charles says
I may keep her. He did ; yes, he did. I am
so glad ; I do love her so."

'' Hush, sir ; you must not say that now she
is a married lady ! " said Mrs. Symes, trying to
recall him to consciousness and propriety.
She is not a baby now, any more than you
are a little boy."

He seemed puzzled, and put his hands upto
his head, which he rolled about on the pillow,
complaining that it ached. Suddenly he raised
himself on his elbow and put out his hand to
her eagerly.

Mrs. Symes," said he In a whisper, '' I
want to ask you something ; but  but don't tell
any one I asked you. My head seems confused
somehow, I can t remember things. Come here,
closer, closer 1 " And he whispered something
into her ear.

The housekeeper started back In horror.

** Your wife ! Bless me, no, sir. She's
Captain Morrison's wife, and "

Then, who Is my wife ? I can't remember
anybody but her."

After a few moments' helpless consternation,
In which she had discovered that his plaintive
uncertainty, though strange and unorthodox,
was genuine, the housekeeper answered discreetly,
'' I don't know as I've heard tell, sir,
who your wife Is ; but I'll Inquire, sir."

He was not satisfied. He looked at her
doubtfully and sighed.

Send the doctor," said he presently.

Mr. Crosse, sir ? He has gone to his
house ; but he has promised to be here again
in the morning."

Mr. Crosse ? No, no, no  the doctor 
you know  my brother ! "

'' You haven't a brother, sir," corrected the
housekeeper, respectfully.

'not really, I know," he agreed, impatiently.
*' But, you know, he always calls himself my
brother, and comes when I want him. Tom ! "
he called out suddenly with all his force : then
again   '' Tom ? " As there was again no
answer, he fell back on his pillow, where he
lay silent for a few minutes. Then he sprang
up again. '* Where Is he ? Why doesn't he
come ? "

'' Perhaps he Is too far away, sir."
'' He's never too far to come when I want
him," said the young man, affectionately ; " at
least, he never has been. If he has left me too,
I'm done for. Do go and call him ; see if he is
In his room."

'' I don't know who you mean, sir."
Yes, yes, you do," cried James, Impatiently.
And as he looked at the old woman he put his
hands over his eyes for a minute and made an
effort to remember something:. Then he said
slowly, with his eyes fixed on her withered face,
*' You saw him when my uncle died  the doctor
you saw him, then."

VOL. III. 43

But the words were not out of his mouth
before their effect upon the old woman was
overwhelming. With a feeble cry, she tottered
backwards and sank Into a chair, with one
hand to her heart, gesticulating with the other
to beg him to be silent. All power to speak
seemed to have left her. James watched her,
but without curiosity or intelligence. At last
she muttered in a broken voice 

'' Heaven have mercy upon us ! Not him ! "
And as she leant back in her chair, with
staring eyes, and her lips still moving, though
no sound passed them, Geraldine, afraid of the
result upon the old woman of the overpowering
emotion under which she was evidently labouring,
entered the room softly and went up to
her. But no sooner had he caught sight of her,
than James uttered a loud cry and sprang up on
his elbow. Both women turned. His whole
face was alight with an exalted feverish joy, his
eyes were glistening, his lips were parted ; but
as Geraldine made a step towards him, he did
not move or speak. In spite of the flood of
recognition which had swept In an Instant over
his face, his brain was still clouded ; he thought

her presence a vision created by his imagination.
She saw this, and took advantage of it.
Signing to him to He down again, which he did
at once like a child, she seated herself softly at
a little distance from him, and remained almost
as still as a statue, until his eyes, fixed upon her,
not with the feverish passion of a man for a
woman, but with the unflinching, steady adoration
of a worshipper for a saint, at last gradually
closed, and he fell peacefully asleep. She had
sat with her eyes turned shyly away, glancing
at him from time to time ; and, as soon as his
-eyelids dropped, she in her turn watched him.
When she was sure that he was asleep, she rose
with the tears running down her cheeks.

Poor boy! " she murmured to herself softly.
Then, turning to the housekeeper, she whispered,
'' I'm going to my room now. Mind you keep
up the story of the burglar in the morning ; say
he fell downstairs and hurt himself severely ;
and don't, on any account, let Miss Elizabeth
or anybody but Johnson and Thomas see him."

And Geraldine went to her room and
prayed for the poor brother who had come
back so tragically, with a good deal more

fervour than she could put Into the perfunctory
petition she uttered on behalf of her husband.

Next morning when she awoke, a sense of
the difficulty of the part she had to play fell
upon her like lead. She abstained from going
to see James before breakfast, for fear of rousing
Elizabeth's suspicions, and she summoned all
her self-possession In order to tell the story of
the injured burglar who had been placed In the
west wing, with as much spirit as she could.
The elder lady listened with almost suspicious
credulity, and advised that, If possible, the
whole affair should be kept from Eleanor, who
would certainly give them endless trouble If she
knew that there was a live thief under the same
roof with her.

And how soon do you suppose you will be
able to get rid of him ? " asked Elizabeth.

'* Oh, he won't stay here any longer than we
can help, you may be sure. Mr. Crosse Is
coming this morning, and I shall ask him.
What I am most afraid of Is that it should
come to Philip's ears."

You are afraid It might bring your
husband back ? "

*' I am afraid he might brick us up alive to
censure our freedom from molestation," said
Geraldlne, her colour rising at the sneer.

You will give the man up to the police, of
course ? "

These words gave Geraldlne such a shock
that she could not reply for a few moments ;
her mouth had suddenly become dry, her
throat parched. But when she answered, It
was with spirit.

'' No," she said. "When once a man had
been tended by my servants, by my orders,
he would be safe In my house, even If he had
committed murder." But as the last word fell
from her lips she shuddered.

ind with their mistrust of each other rather
Increased than abated, the two ladles rose from
the breakfast-table and separated. Geraldlne
went to the library to await Mr. Crosses
arrival. She had not been there five minutes
before she heard a ring, and heard Elizabeth
rush out of the drawing-room to meet him.
Airs. Morrison listened In an ecstasy of mischievous
delight, for the doctor repeated the
story upon which they had agreed, and asked

to see herself. Johnson knocked at the library
door. She came out and shook hands with
Mr. Crosse, who instantly led her towards
the staircase, leaving Elizabeth discomfited.

It is a miserable business, this of poor
Ot way's," he said, as soon as they were out
of hearing. " I have been awake thinking
about it half the night, and so, I can see, have
you. Now, I want to get to the root of it,
and I want you to help me by getting him
to speak out freely ; but, you know, my dear
lady, if you will approach the question with a
parti pris "

" But I won't  I won't ! I spoke hastily
last night ; I am sorry. I will do just what
you please, and say what you please. I am
more anxious to get at the whole truth than
you can be."

He looked at her very attentively, saw that
her conviction was unchanged, that the feverish
fancy of the night had become the steady belief
of the morning ; but he saw too that her self-command
was complete, and that she would
keep her word. So she waited while he went
into the west corridor and into the room which

James occupied ; and, after a few minutes' conversation
with his patient, the doctor came to
the door and beckoned to her. She came
slowly towards him, afraid lest the sudden
rush of blood to her face and her quickened
breathing should make him again doubt her
self-control ; but his head was turned towards
the patient as she passed him.

James was sitting in an armchair by the
fire ; the room was hot, but he was shivering,
though the hand he held out to her was dry
and feverish. After one shy glance at her,
he looked at anything but Geraldine, his eyes
wandering restlessly from ragged carpet to
mouldy wall-paper, from thence to the doctor,
and from him to the fire, while he answered
nervously and briefly her first questions as to
his night's rest, and whether he was well.
Then there was a pause, which Mr. Crosse,
being the most composed of the three, was
naturally the first to break.

"You were right, Mrs. Morrison, about the
circumstances under which he over-dosed himself,"
said he, with a keen and most expressive
look. 'rit was the fault of a friend of his  a

doctor; and when I say a fault," he added, as
James was about to protest, " I dare say overfatigue
had much to do with the strong effect
the morphine had upon him. It seems he has
taken it several times lately to deaden the pain
he has suffered since a fall he had a short
time ago."

'' Yes ; you know I told you about it, Del-dee,"
said James, glancing at her.

I remember," Geraldine answered, leaving
it to the doctor, whose expression seemed to
her to denote that he was following some plan,
to lead the conversation as he would.

I should think, from what you have told
me, the pain you speak of is simply violent
indigestion. You say you felt it yesterday as
you were walking from Goldborough. When
did you eat last before then, and what did
you eat ? "

I had had nothing but a sandwich since
breakfast."

One you got at a station, I suppose ;
an end of tough ham hidden between two
layers of stale bread, its rancidity disguised
by mustard."

"No. Tom  that is, my doctor; the man
I call my brother, Deldee  cut them himself
just before I started, so they couldn't have
hurt me. And, now I remember, I didn't
even finish them ; there was something the
matter with them  too much mustard or something,
so I only ate one, and threw the rest
out of the window of the train."

*you can't have done that, for we found
them in your pocket," said Mr. Crosse, carelessly,
as he amused himself by straightening
with the toe of his boot the long loose strings
over a hole in the carpet.

'' In my pocket ! But I tell you I threw
them away out of the left-hand window of the
carriage just as the train slackened, coming
into Goldborough."

Did you ? Oh, well, I thought Johnson
said he found some in your overcoat ; it isn't
of much consequence. Some one will fall
over this hole in the carpet before the day is
over," he observed, with more interest. "Why
didn't your doctor come with you, James ? You
say he has been living with you, and that
he is your only friend. If he had been with

you, he wouldn't have let you take such a
dose."

** He doesn't know I've come here," James,
replied, growing nervous again. " He sent me
off to Dublin yesterday, saw me off by the Irish
Mail at 7.15 in the morning."

Dublin ! May one ask what you were
going to do there ? "

I was going to try to clear up that story
about me  that infamous story that I daresay
you have heard," James answered, his
voice growing sonorous and his eyes beginning
to shine with anger.

Both his hearers started. Geraldine could
scarcely breathe.

Yes, I know  infamous ! Well ? " the
doctor muttered.

'well, It was by his advice that I was
going. He has been my counsellor all through
this business. On the very first night when
I left Waringham, after the Vicar and my
affectionate aunt had brought that infernal
charge against me," said he, growing more
and more excited, *ras I was going up to
London by myself, he happened to get Into

the same carnage with me at Exmundham 
I had seen him once before, and taken a
most absurd prejudice against him. I was
in a wretched state, you know, Deldee, for
you got my letter, didn't you ? "

'' Yes," she replied, in a trembling voice.

'' Well, I was half mad ; and he, knowing
who I was, asked me a few questions about
Waringham, and, finding I had nowhere in
particular to go to, suggested that I should goto
his chambers in town for the night. He was
awfully kind, and before I left him next morning
I had told him all the story. He was very
indignant about it, and so much interested in it,
that at last I put myself in his hands in the
matter. It was by his advice that I went
abroad first, while he made inquiries in England.
When I came back, he met me and told
me what he had found out ; it was on that very
evening I met with the accident I told you
about. I have been more or less seedy ever
since, and he has been as devoted to me as if
I had really been his brother, as he calls me.
I've been so queer that I seemed to have lost
all energy for going on with the inquiry into

this rascally fraud of which I've been made the
victim ; and at last it was Tom himself who
insisted that I ought to go to Ireland "

Of course ; you ought to have gone thereat
first," interrupted Mr. Crosse, who had
listened with much attention, though it was
impossible for Geraldine to discover whether
or not he believed James's story.

Ever since  ever since  a few days ago,"
continued James, growing embarrassed as he
glanced furtively at Geraldine, " I have felt a
longing to see  to see Waringham again.
Tom said I must not. He said Captain
Morrison was angry because you came to seeme,
Deldee  I don't know how Tom found
that out  and he said it would not do for me to
come and see you, as your husband was away
he knew that too. But yesterday morning,
when I had started for Holyhead  I wasn't
very well, and that helped to make me feel
sentimental, I dare say  such a longing to see
you again came over me, Deldee," said James,
whose nervous shyness had given way before
his excitement as he went on talking, '' that
at Willesden I jumped out of the train, went

to an hotel, and had a couple of hours' sleep,
and drove to Liverpool Street, where I caught
the twelve o'clock train. Then, as I tell you,
I felt the old pains, soon after getting out of
the train at Goldborouofh to walk over here.
Luckily, as I thought, Tom had given me a
dose in case I should have an attack, which
I took at once ; but it seemed to affect me
more than usual. I got so heavy and stupid
that I could scarcely get here. I came in by
the path through the wood, and then I seemed
to forget what I was there for, and I think
I must have gone half asleep there. Then
something roused me, and I just remember
thinking to myself that I must slip in through
the back door to my room  that was what
I used to do when I was late, as a child  and
then I can't remember anything clearly till
I found myself in bed in the middle of the
night with Johnson staring at me from this
chair."

'' What is the doctor s name ? "

Ledbury. He came down to see my
uncle in his last illness."

'' I remember," said Mr. Crosse. Geraldine

was watching him curiously ; but the old gentleman's
face had grown during the last ten
minutes as expressionless as a mask. '' Well,
I can't pretend to be as clever as Doctor
Ledbury ; but I think in a day or two we
shall be able to start you off for Ireland
again. Keep as quiet as you can, don't excite
yourself, don't get into draughts. I'll come
and see you again in the evening. Mrs.
Morrison, can you give me a pen and a scrap
of paper ? "

She left the room, and in a few minutes he
followed her, and met her coming towards the
door with writings materials. He seemed too



be in a great hurry, and he scribbled a prescription,
using the ledge of the window asa
desk, while he said in a low voice 

I want you to promise not to see Otway
again until I return. I shall be back as soon
after luncheon as I can, and then I may have
something to tell you."

Very well ; I promise," said she at once,
glancing up at him with quiet confidence.

And she accompanied him downstairs and
watched him hurry off through the rose corner

towards the wood, which was the shortest way
to his home.

It was a hard matter to Hve through three
or four hours of impatient waiting, and after
luncheon Geraldine escaped into the wood, in
order to meet the doctor a few moments
sooner. It was more than an hour, however,
before he appeared. She was half a dozen
yards from the gate when he came through,
looking somewhat excited, she thought, though
he walked slowly and did not at once speak.

'' Well ? " said she.

'' Well ? " he echoed.

You said you would have something to
tell me."

Did I ? I think I had better keep it to
myself."

Oh no  oh no, Air. Crosse ; it was a
promise ! It can't be anything worse than
I suspect. I will do just what you please,
and be as quiet as you like ; but do trust me.
Look here ! If James has to go away before
I know anything more, I shall go with him."

My dear  my dear Mrs. Morrison, pray
remember "

*' I remember everything. I remember
more than you know of. It is not sentimental
devotion, but a matter-of-fact duty for me to
save him from danger. I don't think I should
enjoy his society ; I am sure he would get
tired of mine. But as long as he has a sister
by his side to watch over him, no one can
abuse his trusting nature, as they have done,
as they shall never do again."

"And do you think a man would allow
you to sacrifice yourself like that ? For I
need not point out to you, my dear Mrs.
Morrison, that such strait-laced fogeys as I
and the rest of your acquaintance, whose
opinion of course you despise, will be too
obtuse to see that it is your duty' to runaway
from your husband with another man."

Geraldine blushed, and turned towards the
house with firmly set lips and a dangerous fire
of resolution in her eyes.

Now, don't you want to hear what I have
to tell you ? " asked the old doctor, still drily.

She hesitated. Even wounded pride had
to give way to her burning wish to know
what that fact was of which he was master.

She looked up at him imploringly, with a long,
sobbing sigh.

If you please," said she, meekly.

You know I said from the first that the
pains Otway complained of were the result
of indigestion." Geraldine glanced up incredulously.
*' Well, I resolved to find out what
could have disagreed with him. So I drove
to Goldborough, and hunted along the line
just where the trains from London slacken
as they come into the station." She listened
intently. 'ein a little cottage garden, a few
yards from the metals, I found a piece of
white note-paper with greasy stains upon it,
and a little way from this some fragments of
bread ; very small scraps though, for the owner
of the garden kept fowls there, and they had
eaten up the rest." The doctor paused, and
then continued quietly, 'apparently the sandwiches
hadn't agreed with them any better than
they had with James, for the fowls  there were
three of them  were dead."

Oh, Mr. Crosse ! "

I had picked up one and was examining
it with some interest, when the proprietress
VOL. III. 44

of the garden came out with an armful of
clothes to hang out to dry, and wanted to
know what I had done to her hens ; and when
I said I was only looking at them she wanted
to know what I was trespassing in her garden
for. Of course the old thief knew they where
dead, for they had been lying in her dirty
little cabbage-ground since yesterday, and I
dare say she thought me a great flat when I
gave her half a crown and, after a few
inquiries as to the time and manner of their
death, which she, now seeing I was a man of
business, thought fit to answer, took up my
three prizes, the greasy paper, and the few
crumbs I could find, and went off with them.
You guess what I did then ? "

Geraldine moved her head in assent; she
was white to the lips.

I took them home and shut myself up
with them, analyzed the contents of their crops,
and found    "

-What what?"

Nothing injurious."

I don't understand ! I can't believe it !
They must have been poisoned ! "

'' Yes ; but by a poison that defies analysis.
There are two tests, however, both of which
I applied the one is taste, the other its effect
on living animals. Both succeeded. You
have heard of digitalis ? "

'eyes," whispered Geraldine, whom the
ghastly certainty seemed to paralyze.

That was the condiment which, by mistake
or  or by design, had been used to flavour
James's sandwiches. I dare say the ' too much
mustard,' of which he complained, had been
used to conceal the taste of the  of the other
condiment, which is very bitter."

'' Now do you believe } " began Geraldine,
with passionate earnestness.

'' I believe nothing, my dear Mrs. Morrison,
but that James has been in very bad hands 
very unskilful ones, to begin with."

Unskilful ! But Doctor Ledbury "

Mr. Crosse interrupted her by a contemptuous
exclamation.

'' That is all a nonsensical story ! Doctor
Ledbury not merely a poisoner, but a stupid,
dull, bungling one ! Why, my chief wonder is
how the fool who poisoned James could have got

hold of the digitalis, which is not sold to the
first comer like two pennyworth of rat poison ! "

But, Mr. Crosse," cried Geraldlne, seizing
his arm, '' James knows Doctor Ledbury ! "

Knows a man who passes himself off to
him under the shelter of a great name  very
likely. Why, do you suppose a fashionable
London physician would have the time to
potter about with James, and tend him devotedly,
and see him off to Dublin, and the
rest of It ? I can't imagine how Otway himself
could be so grossly humbugged. And
do you really think that, after messing him
about with two different poisons on a system
which, perhaps, was not without ingenuity, he
would send him off on a long journey, armed
with two final doses, either of which, if James
had been travelling In an express train by
himself, without possibility of assistance, would
have left him dead as a door-nail in two or
three hours ? The thing is absurd ! "

But, Mr. Crosse," she cried. In a weak
and trembling voice, '' how could James make
a mistake ? He saw Doctor Ledbury when,
he came to see Sir Charles."

Then, all I can say is that the man who
came to see Sir Charles was not Doctor
Ledbury at all."

She sank back without a word  bewildered,
stunned, while the old doctor, on his side,
looked disturbed. After trotting a few steps
past her, he turned and put his hand on her
shoulder impressively.

Now, look here ! " said he. " I don't ask
you not to tell this to anybody, because, luckily,
you have nobody to tell ; but I ask you not
to suspect anybody."

'' I don't suspect now ; I know."

'' You don't know everything. Don't put
two and two together too fast, or it is sure
to make five ; and, above all things, leave the
interrogation of James to me."

'' You must not leave it long, or there will
be no James to interrogate. I am sure Elizabeth
guesses something, and Elizabeth is my
husband's spy. If he once takes the matter
out of the hands of the * hired assassins ' you
laughed at me for believing in, he will use
a quicker means than poison."

"Hush, hush! I told you not to suspect.

But  er  write to Captain Morrison, and get
him to answer you ; you may as well keep
yourself informed of his whereabouts. And
and keep James quiet until I come and
see him this evening. I will come in directly
after dinner."

He shook hands with her and left, and
Geraldine returned quickly towards the house.
There were fresh marks of wheels and hoofs
on the gravel in front of the portico ; whoever
it was that had called must have gone, for no
carriage was in sight. She let herself in, and,
as she opened the door, she smelt the scent
of a cigar. James downstairs, she thought,
in alarm. But the moment after she heard
a man's laugh, and the voice was one she did
not know.

CHAPTER IV.

A FEAR, SO terrible that it kept her rooted to
the spot where the stranger's voice had fallen
upon her ears, rose up in Geraldine's heart as
soon as she found herself inside the Hall.
She listened breathlessly, with her face turned
towards the door of the study, from which she
fancied the sound had come ; but for some
minutes she heard nothing more. She could
almost have believed that the strange laugh
which had frightened her was the creation of
her imagination, but that the scent of cigars in
the hall, though faint, was unmistakable. She
walked very softly towards the inner hall, with
her eyes fixed fearfully upon the library door ;
the moment her self-possession returned she
was madly anxious to get upstairs to the west
wing to ascertain that James was safe, and to

learn, either from Johnson or Mrs. Symes 
one or other of whom was sure to be about 
who the stranger in the study was, and who
was with him.

But she was satisfied on the latter point
sooner than she wished, for she had not
reached the entrance to the inner hall when
the door of the library opened, and two gentlemen
came out. The first was tall and fair ; he
had a handsome, cold face, a long, light, well-cut
beard, and was rather bald ; behind him
was her husband, who stopped her as she
redoubled her speed, hoping to escape to warn
and save James. She paid no heed to his
first call, " Geraldine ! " but when she had
got halfway up the stairs, she heard his step
behind her, and felt his hand laid peremptorily
upon her shoulder. It was the hardest thing
she had ever had to do yet to turn and look,
with an affectation of surprise and a smiling
welcome, into the dark face of this man whose
very touch on her arm seemed to brand her
like hot iron, whose red lips were quivering,
and his brown eyes gleaming with passions
grown menacing in their fierceness. Her task

needed an effort so supreme that she did it
Avell, though not well enough to convince a
jealous husband of her sincerity.

'' Philip ! You ! I can scarcely believe it.
Why didn't you telegraph, and I would have
come to meet you ? "

'thank you," he replied, taking no notice
of the cheek she held out to him to kiss in the
enthusiasm of her welcome. " I didn't want
to rob myself of the sight of the pleasure
you always show when you see me unexpectedly."


But the young wife was too much excited
by the return of her treasure to be easily
snubbed.

How long have you been here ? " she
asked, turning to go down, and leading him
with her. '' Haven't you had any luncheon ?
You must be starving ! " and she hurried Into
the dining-room, which was opposite the staircase,
and rang the bell.

I am not hungry, thank you ; I breakfasted
late. If you will not mind having
dinner a little earlier, I will wait till then. I
have brought a friend with me, and I want to

introduce him to you. I have had to leave him
at the Library door while I came to fetch you,
as you unfortunately did not hear me call you""
said Captain Morrison, very coldly, watching
her from the door of the room with the same
threatening expression.

She followed him obediently into the outer
hall, where the stranger was waiting. Her first
hasty glance at him, as she tried to escape, had
told her nothing; but now that she met him
face to face she recognized, before her husband
spoke again, the face she had seen at the
window of the carriage, as it drove past her
and James on the night of her guardian's
death. And again, in the midst of the terror
which grew tenfold stronger upon her at sight
of him, the vague fancy that she knew the face
well occurred to her as it had done then.

She felt that she knew the very worst now
that her husband had boldly introduced his
tool, the poisoner, under his own roof; if her
self-command should fail her for one moment,
James was lost. The danger called forth all
her strength; and she shook hands with Doctor
Ledbury with charming grace, and led the way

towards the drawing room with her brightest
air of welcome.

We were going upstairs, my dear, to see
this interesting prisoner whom Johnson tells
me you have captured," said her husband,
with his eyes fixed upon her in a marked
manner.

Oh, the injured burglar ? You have heard
about him already. Well, the burglar can wait.
I am dying to hear what has brought you back
so suddenly, and to tell you all about our fright
last night."

Anything for a delay, during which she
might find an opportunity of getting James
out of the way. Without absolutely tearing
his arm from the caressing but firm clasp of
her hand. Captain Morrison could not escape ;
but he went into the drawing-room with her
without once taking his mocking eyes from
her face, and it seemed to her that he took a
cruel delight in the torture she could not doubt
he knew she was suffering. Doctor Ledbury
followed.

'' Have you seen the Miss Otwayss yet ? "
she asked.

No ; we have only been in the house a
few minutes. Ah, Miss Otway, how do you
do ? " said he, going up to Eleanor, who was
crouching over the fire.

Anxious to find out the relations which
existed between James's enemies, Geraldine
watched the meetings between Elizabeth and
each of the two gentlemen. Between her and
Captain Morrison the understanding was clear,
as soon as their hands touched and their eyes
met. It was just as clear that she was surprised
to see Doctor Ledbury, though she
greeted him very cordially.

'' I hear you had a fright last night,"
observed Captain Morrison almost immediately,
'rand that your burglar tried to make
himself Interesting, when he failed to get away,
by breaking his leg."

Indeed, I can't tell you much about it,
Philip, for such a mystery has been made of
the whole affair that it was only by accident I
learned that there had been a burglary at all,"
said Elizabeth, drily.

A mystery ! " exclaimed he, just at the
moment that Eleanor broke In with 

Oh, Philip, isn't it dreadful ? I have only
just heard of it, and "

"And I did not mean that you should hear
of it at all, Aunt Eleanor, until the poor wretch
was out of the house," interrupted Geraldine,
seizing this excuse. " I particularly told
Johnson and Mrs. Symes that it was to be
kept from you, as I knew very well you would
not sleep if you heard of it."

*' And had you the same fear for me,
Geraldine ? "

No, Aunt Elizabeth. In that case I
should not have told you all about it, as I
did at breakfast this morning. Don't you
remember ? "

'' And where was he found ? " asked Captain
Morrison.

In one of the bedrooms, I believe."

Oh ! ind who found him ? "

"Johnson. The man fell downstairs in
trying to escape, and hurt himself. So I went
for Mr. Crosse, who is coming again this
evening to see him. Shall I ring for Johnson
to tell you all about it ? "

She was anxious to do this, in the hope of

getting a chance of whispering or signing to
the old butler that one short sentence, " Send
him away." But her husband answered 

No, that doesn't matter, for Doctor Led-bury
and I are going up to have a look at him
ourselves. Is he up ? "

'' I'm sure I don't know."

'' Was he up when you went to see him this
morning ? " asked Elizabeth, with such evident
vindictiveness in her affected indifference that,
if Geraldine had not already guessed that the
elderly lady had suspicions, she would have
guessed it then.

'when I went up with Mr. Crosse?
Oh yes ; but he seemed very ill and quite
stupid ! "

'' Drunk when he was caught, very likely,"
put in Doctor Ledbury, in his low voice.
They were almost the first words he had
spoken.

The doctor said he had taken something
which disagreed with him," she answered,
turning round and meeting the handsome
stranger's cold blue eyes with a long, grave
gaze that brought the blood to his face.

This effect of her bold experiment shocked
her. She did not hear Eleanor's querulous
voice until it had called for the third time 

'* Geraldine ! "

Yes, Aunt Eleanor ? " And she crossed
over to the invalid, glad to leave the neighbourhood
of her husband's accomplice.

Did you really see him ? What did he
look like ? Was he hardened, or did he seem
grateful and sorry ? "

'' I didn't say much to him. Aunt Eleanor ;
I only went with Mr. Crosse, you know, and
he did most of the talking. The poor man
seems too stupid at present for one to know
what he thinks."

I should like to go to see him, Geraldine,"
said the old lady, in her feeble cracked voice.
'rit is just at these times, when affliction is
upon them, that a word in season may take
root. Will you go with me, dear ? "

These words went nearer to the destruction
of Geraldine's self-command than all the cross-examination
that had gone before. She
affected to draw the woollen shawl round the
old lady's tiny bent shoulders to give herself

time to recover from the rush of feelings which
the naive little bleat called up in her.

I think you had better wait, Miss Otway,
until our interview with him is over : then your
kind sympathy with him for the ill-success of
his enterprise will come like the jam after the
powder," said Captain Morrison, rising.

Doctor Ledbury rose too.

*' Don't be very harsh to him, Captain
Morrison," pleaded the old lady, whose prejudice
against the unholy trade of soldiering
was so great that she could never call him
by his Christian name. " Remember it is
blessed to forgive," she added, with the unconscious
impertinence with which the most
timid of women often assume the authority
of Scripture.

But the gleam of the officer's dark eyes,
which seemed to make his whole face flash
fire when he was under the influence of
passion, caused Geraldine to spring up from
her seat in spite of herself, and to hurry after
him as he turned and walked towards the door.

Stay here," said he, shortly, in a very low
voice, but with authority which she did not try

to resist. Then he beckoned to Elizabeth,
who followed him and Doctor Ledbury out
of the room. Geraldlne leant against the
partition, staring at the door in dumb horror,
unconscious of everything but that one fact,
that James's two worst enemies, one of whom
had sworn, while the other had tried, to kill
him, were on their way to the room where
she had left him, helpless with illness, that
mornings. Of course she was too much excited
to see clearly that there was nothing in the
world less likely than that these two men
should fall upon him and make an end of
him at once ; and, after a few moments of
agony, she could bear the suspense no longer,
and rushed at the door. The key, which was
on the outside, had been softly turned. She
flew towards the nearest window, and, with a
few words of unintelligible explanation and
soothing to Miss Eleanor, whom her startling
proceedings had brought to the verge of
hysterics, she jumped out over the narrow
flower-bed underneath on to the path, ran
towards the conservatory, and through it into
the dining-room. At the inner door, as she

VOL. III. 45

opened it, she met the butler, who was looking
up the staircase and listening, with his mouth
open and every appearance of curiosity. At
sight of his mistress he turned, put his finger
respectfully to his lips, and came towards her.

'' Go back, ma'am ; they are coming down.
It's all right ; he is gone."

She did not wait for another word, but
flew back into the drawing-room by the way
she had come, closed the window softly, and
applied herself to the task of comforting Miss
Eleanor, who instinctively began to sob more
energetically as soon as she appeared.

'' Don't say anything about my leaving the
room," she whispered, as voices were heard
outside.

The key was turned, the door opened, and
the three conspirators, as Geraldine chose to
consider them, reappeared. She just glanced
up, saw an expression on her husbands face
which she did not care to meet, and continued
her ministrations to the old invalid with sweet
and soothing calmness.

'' Don't be unhappy. Aunt Eleanor ; here
they come. I'm sure they haven't been very

harsh to him," said she, squeezing her hand
as a suggestion to the old lady to be silent
as to the events of the past few minutes.
Now you and I will go and see him, and
we'll read him a chapter if you like." And
she began to lead the invalid towards the
door, when her husband's voice stopped her.

Where are you going ? "

"Aunt Eleanor won't be satisfied until she
has seen the burglar."

'' Unfortunately that little excitement is
over. He has escaped," said her husband,
watching her keenly.

Miss Eleanor's horror at the idea that the
burglar was loose again was so much stronger
than her philanthropy had been, that Captain
Morrison had to spring forward in order to
prevent her collapsing in a heap upon the floor.
Geraldine overwhelmed him with questions,
while she glanced at the other two. Doctor
Ledbury's handsome face looked eager and
resolute ; she thought he was uneasy. Elizabeth
showed bitter disappointment much more
plainly.

I believe that infernal old fool, Johnson,

had something to do with it ! " muttered Captain
Morrison to Elizabeth, while the old lady
was being restored to composure. Geraldine
heard this, and heard him add, " But I begin
to think you must have been mistaken, for" 
and he added something in a lower voice
about " boots found and a crowbar in the room
where he slept." And Geraldine gave a shrewd
guess as to what " old fool " had put them
there.

But I'll have the police sent after him
We'll go to the police-station at Goldborough
at once. What do you say to that, Doctor
Ledbury ? "

'' Better wait till you know what you want
them for," answered the doctor's low voice.

And Captain Morrison's passionate eyes
flashed up at him an inquiring glance, and
the cold blue ones answered by a steady look
which had the effect of making his host drop
his suggestion. The accord between them was
evidently perfect.

Well, he must be found, at any rate ! "
*' For the sake of these ladies, who will be
nervous while they fancy he may still be about

the place, I think so too," said the doctor, very
calmly.

His host sprang up and beckoned to him,
and they again left the room together, after
a few words of courteous apology to the ladies
by the doctor, who remained perfectly cool and
self-possessed, while Captain Morrison was
evidently on hire and impatient of a moment's
delay in action.

Geraldine again felt sick with terror.
James, ill as he was, could not have had time
to get out of reach of the bloodhounds upon his
track, who began by a thorough search of the
house itself, the interrogation of all the servants
and the lodge-keeper. No one had seen a man
leave the house or pass through the grounds.
The gamekeeper, who had seen the suspicious-looking
person in the road outside the park the
day before, and Thomas, who had seen the
burglar after he was caught, gave conflicting
accounts of his personal appearance ; the former
did not think he should know him again, the
latter thought perhaps he might, but was not
sure. Geraldine herself, who was a silent and
anxious ear-witness of some of these interrogatories,

was surprised at the unanimity with
which they all declared they had seen no
strange person about the house or grounds that
day. There was no feudal feeling of attachment
to the outlawed heir of the Otwayss among
the present dependents at Waringham, most of
the old ones having been pensioned off, while
their places were filled by a troop of younger
and more active servants. All that the butler
would tell her, when she found an opportunity
of speaking to him privately, was, that Sir James
was safe. But every moment, while the search
of the house continued, Geraldine feared to hear
from the frightened maids, who collected in
knots of two and three in every corner, within
earshot of the two gentlemen as they hunted
high and low, cries and shrieks to give notice
that the burglar was caught.

But they returned to the Hall disappointed,
with the butler, stolid of face as usual, at their
heels. He had accompanied the two gentlemen
on their expedition, and had been most useful
in putting at their disposal his thorough knowledge
of the building, by pointing out and
examining a dozen unsuspected holes and

corners where a thief might have hidden ; but,
interesting as the expedition thus became, it
was unsuccessful. The old servant, had, however,
so much impressed his master by his
unobtrusive zeal, and by the fact that he was
the only person in the house who was ready
to swear that he should know the man again
anywhere, that Captain Morrison's suspicions
concerning the identity of the intruder began
to fade away, and his determination to discover
him assumed less ferocious form. But Doctor
Ledbury was less credulous ; Geraldlne heard
him say to her husband in his low voice, when
they returned from an unsuccessful search of
the grounds and neighbourhood 

Old servants are the d  ; they can tell a
lie better than their masters. Keep an eye on
that old fox, and you'll see him go to his hole."

And Geraldlne, who was eavesdropping
among the bushes of the rose-corner as the two
gentlemen returned to the house, caught these
words, and reported them to the butler, who
received them as a compliment, but said nothing
about the warning implied in the last sentence.

Geraldlne had had time to ask herself a

hundred questions as to when and how the
connection had been formed between her
husband and this doctor, who had attended
her guardian's death-bed. The remembrance
of this latter fact roused new and horrible fears
in her mind. How came this poisoner, whom
Mr. Crosse declared to be no doctor at all,
at the sick-bed of Sir Charles ? She remembered
that it was Lindley Fielding who had
brought him  the man whom James had cursed
as the instrument of his own ruin. She could
have no doubt now that this so-called doctor
was an accomplice of Lindley's. But an
accomplice in what ? What object could they
have in ruining him, in murdering him ? At
what point of their long and savage persecution
of him did Captain Morrison step in to profit
by their hatred in the interest of his own
revenge ? It was clear that he was not the
first instigator of their plot  since plot there
must be  for it seemed that they had never
lost sight of James, while Captain Morrison
had married her in order to get on his track.
Lindley's old stories, long since disregarded as
idle nonsense, about herself and her parentage

came back to her mind. Was he really her
father, as he had at one time asserted ? If so,
would this fact give any clue to the whole
mystery ? She could not readily believe, in
spite of her prejudice against him, that Lindley
was capable of conniving at a murder. He was
quite a different type of rogue from the calm,
fish-blooded Doctor Ledbury, for he was
nervous, bold only by impulse, and imperturbably
possessed by belief in his own
rectitude ; he was a man also utterly unable to
burden his conscience  he had a conscience 
with a desperate crime of any sort, except for
an immediate return in the pounds, shillings,
and pence of which he was always so urgently
in need. This last consideration suddenly
suggested to Geraldine a possible way to a
solution of the whole mystery. She knew
Lindley's address ; she would try to bribe him.
Or should she try through his wife ?

Geraldine was in her own room, dressing
for dinner, when these reflections at last resulted
in this suggestion of a course of action.
But, following upon it, came a remembrance
which made her start up and hurriedly unlock

the old school-desk which she kept in her
room, and take from a corner underneath
everything else the photograph of Mrs. Fielding,
on the back of which was written, " To
Harry, with Ada's love." She knew now that
'' Harry Hammond " was the alms under which,
for what purpose, if he was innocent of the
charge of murder, she did not know  James
had lived at Chiswick. She remembered Mrs.
Fielding's horror on hearing that " Harry
Hammond " was in the neighbourhood, yet
she had professed to have seen James only
the night before. Then what connection was
there, or had there been, between them ? And
what was the meaning of her fearing the man
under one name, and liking him  she had said
she and James " had great fun "  under
another ?

Geraldine could not pretend to arrive at a
clue to the mystery unaided ; but by the time
the dinner-bell rang she fancied that she would
be able to grope her way to one by means of a
letter she intended to write.

In the mean time, braced up by her new
resolution, she could give her attention to

I

Studying the man who had acquired such a
mysterious and dangerous influence over James,
and who seemed also to have established some
ascendency over her husband. But her wits
fell blunted by the so-called doctor's stolid
impenetrability. He spoke very little, he said
nothing remarkable ; his manners were, to her
critical eyes, rather too studiously courteous ;
he listened very attentively to everything that
was said ; he drank a great deal, but wine
seemed to have no effect upon him whatever ;
he was just the same cold, handsome, courteous,
dignified statue as he held open the door for
the ladies at the end of dinner as he had been
when it began. But Miss Eleanor, who had
seen him before, noticed a change in him, and
remarked upon it as soon as the three ladies
reached the drawing-room.

What a strange man Doctor Ledbury is,
Elizabeth ! " she said. 'you know how terribly
afraid of him I was last time. Well, this time
he doesn't frighten me at all ! He seemed so
much more assured, so much more commanding
when he came in his professional capacity than
he is now that he comes simply on a visit. He

impressed me so much when I first saw him ;
and, if I had never seen him before to-day, I
don't think I should have thought him anything
extraordinary, except that he is very
handsome, very handsome. Don't you think
so, Geraldine ? "

Yes, he is handsome," she replied, in a
low voice. " But I don't like his face ; there
is no feeling in it. I think I should like him
better in marble than in flesh-and-blood."

Elizabeth took no part in the discussion ;
she seemed rather restless and uneasy, snubbed
her elder sister two or three times for " fidgeting,"
and kept a close watch on Geraldine's
slightest movement. The young lady was
expecting every minute to hear the arrival of
Mr. Crosse, who had promised to come
after dinner ; but then the Waringham party
had dined earlier than usual, and she was afraid
that the gentlemen would come in before the
old doctor made his appearance. Not only
was her fear fulfilled, but the evening passed
without his coming ; and Geraldine, who had
in some measure depended upon him for advice
in the maze of doubts and difficulties in which

she found herself, retired to her room filled
with a new anxiety. For, if Mr. Crosse
deserted her, how was she to prove that foul
play, which was her strong card against the
self-styled physician ?

She locked her door, and, leaning over her
writing-table with her head in her hands, tried
to mature the plans she had proposed to herself
that afternoon ; but she was both too weary
and too much excited for any work of that
sort. Fear of her husband, fear of his accomplice,
anxiety lest James should still be within
their reach, despair at the isolation in which
she found herself, with no ally in the whole
household but the stolid Johnson, who respectfully
but firmly declined to trust her with the
secret of his late master's hiding-place  all
assailed her by turns ; and, after trying to
clear her thoughts by the feeble expedient of
opening her window and putting her head out
into the chilling air of the November night,
she gave up the attempt, and broke down into
sobs and tears. She still stood at the window,
looking piteously up at the moon and the
floating clouds, down at the lawn and the

misty trees, with the dull whining of the wind
round the corner of the house filling her ears
and deadening her sense of hearing, when a
sound from her door, as if some one had
pushed against it, drew a cry of fear from
her. She turned from the window to watch
and to listen, without, however, leaving the
place where she stood. Anything might
happen in this house while it was haunted
by the presence of a cold-blooded poisoner
like the so-called Doctor Ledbury, and of a
madman as dangerous as her husband had
seemed to her that night. Both gentlemen
had stayed long over their wine ; but when
they came to the drawing-room Doctor Led-bury
was as cold and as hard of face as ever,
while Captain Morrison's pale, dark face had
been flushed, and the sullen gleam of his eyes
had prepared his frightened wife for a possible
outbreak of fury.

She still stood by the window, therefore,
and glanced out to note the distance from the
sill to the soft lawn underneath, in case of an
emergency ; but no attempt was made to force
her door, or even to open it ; and in a few

minutes she heard the soft sounds of footsteps
creeping away. Then she went round the
bed towards the door to Hasten ; but, as soon
as she approached it, she saw what the object
of the soft-footed visitor had been. On the
floor was a piece of paper that had been
pushed under the door. She snatched it up
and carried it to the candles. With a oreat
shock of terror and joy and tenderness, she
recognized, at the bottom of a scrawl in pencil
which filled both sides of the half-sheet of
paper, the signature, " James Otway." For a
moment her eyes swam, and she could not
read ; then she recovered herself, and made
out the following words 

'* My dear Deldee,

'' I can't leave this old dungeon
for the last time without saying good-bye to
you somehow ; and, as I must not see you,
I have to do it by means of a scrawl which
you will scarcely be able to read, the light
is so bad now on the top of the house, where
I have passed the day like a carrier-pigeon,
ever since Johnson bundled me up there this

morning. He said your husband had come
that he had heard where I was found, was
jealous, and swore he would shoot you If I
was really James Otway ! Johnson said he was
going to say I was a burglar. I can't make
head or tail of all this ; but he Alas in such
an awful fright, trembling from head to foot,
that I had to humour him, though I told him
I didn't at all like being chivied about in this
fashion. Your husband must be very unreasonable
if he can be angry at my coming to see
you, since we were brought up together, and
the doctor can prove that I was under the
influence of a narcotic when I instinctively
made my way to my old room. I think there
has been some curse upon me from the time
you left England to go to Havre, Deldee.
You have always lived since in my thoughts
as my good fairy ; but you have been too
far away to save me from my own cursed
folly and ill-luck. For it is ill-luck. I left
Waringham after my uncle's death, resolved
to fight myself free from the awful charge
brought upon me, and to come back and tell
my sister that her sweet faith in me was not

all unfounded. But I have been sucked down
in spite of every effort, and Heaven knows
that what strength I have in me I have used
in the face of broken health and ruined hopes,
but without one breath of success. I shall
try once more, Deldee. I am going back to
my one only friend besides you in the world,
to pull round a bit before I make my last
effort to go to Ireland and get to the root
of this wretched mystery. I must not see
your sweet face again now ; but, if I only
succeed in getting this infamous charge disproved,
and Lindley Fielding brought to book
for an attempt which is, I am sure, his doing,
I will come boldly to Waringham in my own
proper person and show your husband that
there is no disgrace on the head of

** Your unlucky brother,

** James Otway."

No disgrace ? No disgrace ? Then perhaps
my husband has been deceived about his
sister, after all ! " was Geraldine's first thought,
on reaching the last line of this letter, which
she pressed to her lips and on her breast with
VOL. HI. 46

thanks to Heaven In her heart. Then she
sprang up, unlocked her door, and slipped
quietly down the back staircase. James had
gone that way, she could tell by the slight
sounds of his footsteps in descending. A rush
of cold air at the bottom directed her to one
of the doors at the back of the house in the
west wing. He had left it ajar, for fear of
making a noise in shutting it ; but the wind
blew it backwards and forwards with a creaking
and banging which would certainly have roused
attention if any one had slept near. These
sounds frightened Geraldine at first ; but,
gathering her courage when she recognized
the cause of them, she ran lightly along the
stone passage and looked out. In front of
the door was a path, which turned sharply to
the left round one of those great clumps of
untrimmed evergreens which are planted at the
backs of big houses to hide the unornamental
walls and windows of the outbuildings. To the
right was the wall of the stable-yard. She
crept out to the end of the evergreens, shivering,
and looked eagerly down the path as far
as she could see the faint, light band of gravel

I

in the deep shadow cast by the rustling trees.
She called in a whisper, '' James ! " but got
no answer ; she had waited too long over
his letter ; and, with a heavy sigh, she turned
back towards the house. She did not dare
to search the grounds further, on the chance
of finding him, to give him the comfort and
warning without which it seemed so terrible
for him again to go forth to court the very
danger he had just escaped. If the wind
should shut the door through which she had
come, she would be more fatally lost than
James and without having done anything to
save him. So, with her teeth chattering, she
returned ; as she reached the door, she saw
a light in the passage.

For one moment she thought it might be
James who was carrying it; on the impulse,
she started forward, and the candle, raised
suddenly, showed her the dark face of her
husband, looking more menacing than ever in
the flickering light.

Where have you been ? " he hissed.

With a sharp cry she staggered back, rushed
out wildly into the garden again, and buried

herself among the evergreens to the left of the
path. She heard him come quickly out, heard
the door close sharply behind him, heard his
oath, and then his quick steps on the gravel.
He passed her, going slowly and listening ashe
went. For a moment she felt relieved ; but
the next she remembered that it was still impossible
for her to regain the house, as the
door was shut. Then a thought caused her
to start and almost to cry out, for Captain
Morrison, having rapidly made up his mind as
to the course he would pursue, began running
down the path towards the gate at that end
of the park. As this was probably the way
James had gone, he must come upon him
sooner or later if he went on. So she rushed
out of her hiding-place and called " Philip ! "
He turned, and came back to where she stood
quite still, waiting like a child for some awful
punishment she did not know of.

** Now perhaps you will give me some
explanation of this," he said between his teeth.

I  I cannot," she whispered faintly, and
turned her eyes to his face with a look of
shuddering, unutterable terror which cut him

like a knife. " You can  you can do what you
like to me."

You deserve something worse than anything
I can do," he muttered, in a voice that
was choked and hoarse with fury.

'well, do what you like," she said almost
wearily and scarcely above her breath.

But, as he made a movement towards her,
with what intent she did not know, she fell
in a heap at his feet.

CHAPTER V.

When Geraldine opened her eyes, she stared
at the dark sky above her, at the dark trees
around her for some moments before she
recognized the fact that she was alone in the
garden, lying on the path. Then she sat up
quickly and found that she had been placed
upon her husband's coat, and she heard an
unromantic kicking at the back door and the
noise of stones flung up at the windows ; then
she heard his voice crying  '* Confound the
fools ! " two or three times ; and she was on
the point of getting up, when the sound of
his footsteps returning towards her brought
on another access of terror, and she fell back
again and closed her eyes to gain a few
moments' consideration as to what excuse she
should make to him.

Terror kept her rigid as the dead, as he
went down on his knees beside her and put his
hand, which she felt was trembling, on her heart ;
then she felt his breath upon her face and heard
his voice, deep and shaking, whispering 

'' Oh God, she will die out here ! Curse
the fools ! " he added, in a burst of frenzy ; and
the next moment she felt his hot tears falling
on her cheeks.

A tremor ran through her frame, and he
snatched her up with a cry, and held her to
his breast, and his loud, sobbing breath came
closer and closer as he examined her face in
the faint moonlight, and called her softly, and
pressed her to him as if his passionate touch
could thrill her with life.

Geraldine ! Great Heavens, she must be
dead, if she can't even make an effort to repulse
me," growled he with such plaintive,
heart-broken bitterness that she said weakly 

'i'm not dead;" and instinctively, without
knowing what she did, she put out a hand to
free herself.

He instantly withdrew the support of his
arms, and she fell back, and then got on to

her feet. She could not walk steadily for the
first few moments ; but he made no attempt
to help her. Glancing at her askance, with an
expression which was half-surly, half wistful,
he stalked on towards the house in a dignified
manner, which in a little man in shirt-sleeves
was rather comical. Then she saw him shiver,
and remembering why he was cold, she went
back, picked up the coat on which she had
been lying, and, overtaking him, said dutifully 

"I  I am afraid you have caught cold."

Psha ! " exclaimed the little officer, haughtily.
*' I've slept many a night on the ground.
Thank you," he added, taking it from her.
Confound the idiots ! " And, picking up a
stone, he smashed one of the upper windows
and produced a shrill scream.

*' Hallo ! " he shouted, not caring now how
much noise he made in his anxiety to get his
shivering wife safely inside. '' Come down
some of you, just as you are, at once, and
open the front door, or you'll all get a month's
notice tomorrow."

After a few minutes, a head appeared at
the window, and, repeating his order with a

little more emphasis, Captain Morrison turned
to his wife and said 

'you had better come round. If we go
In this way, the whole house will get the
burglar-fever again." And he marched round
to the front of the house while Geraldine
meekly followed.

It was the cook who let them in, and shyly
offered them a candle, her master having let his
drop outside the back door as he heard it close
behind him. She then shuffled hastily off. By
the light, as he turned It towards his wife, Captain
Morrison saw that she was white to the
lips and shivering.

You are ill ! " he cried anxiously. " Sit
down and let me call the doctor to see
you."

All the old terror came back upon her as
she shrank away, whispering, " No, no ; for
Heaven's sake, don't call him ! "

Why not ? " he asked abruptly. " You
ought to like him, since he has been such a
good friend to that precious scoundrel you are
so fond of."

She sank down upon her chair and buried

her face in her hands ; this strange reference
by her husband to his accomplice confused even
more than it shocked her. He misinterpreted
the action, and continued savagely 

I know it was to see him you went out
to-night ; you expected to meet him ; but you
see his affection is not proof against fear of
the husband he no doubt despises."

She raised her head to answer him ; she
wanted to assure him that she could prove
that James had no thought of doing him harm
by word or deed ; but the hopelessness of an
argument on this point against his fierce prejudices
and rooted convictions stopped her. She
got up, and moved with staggering steps towards
the inner hall ; but it was in vain that
he tried to stiffen himself against the sight
of her weakness ; she had not reached the
staircase before he was by her side again.

There is no fireplace in that wretched
room of yours ; come to my room just for a few
minutes ; there is a nice fire there." She shook
her head. " I don't want to get you there to
frighten you again ; I shall be in the dressing-room
while you stay," said he impatiently.

No, thank you, I am not cold ; and I
want to go to bed ; I am tired."

So they reached the top of the stairs ; and
she, worn out, unhappy, remembering the
snub she had got that afternoon when she
offered him her cheek, shyly put out her
hand; but he looked at her white, wan face,
and bit his quivering lower lip, and just
touched her hand and let it fall, and turned
sharply away. She went on towards her own
room In complete indifference as to his action ;
but she had not been there two minutes before
there was a knock at her door, and In reply
to her whisper, '' Who Is It ? " her husband's
voice whispered back 

It's I Philip. Open the door. Don't
be afraid ; I'm not coming In."

The words were spoken Irritably, but It was
not In his Irritable moods that she feared him.
She unlocked the door, and found him with
a cigar in his mouth and a thick fur rug piled
up in his arms.

There ! You had better put that over
you, and then you won't take cold"  and he
looked at her over it shyly but haughtily.

Thank you very much," she answered
gently, wakened at last to the fact that his
fury had not been wreaked upon her so savagely
as she had expected. '' I  I am afraid it is you
who have caught cold, and not I."

Indeed, he looked as if he had, and his pale
face, with dark marks under the eyes and livid
lips, was anything but attractive.

** Oh no; I'm all right, thank you!"  but
still he stayed.

*' I  I hope you will have a good night's
rest," said she civilly.

Thank you. It will be as good a one as
I deserve, I dare say ; and, if I lie awake and
curse my ill-luck, why, it won't interfere with
your night's rest, at any rate."

This speech was meant to be dry and bitter,
but a break of the voice on the last words made
it plaintive. The tears came into Geraldine's
eyes. She flung the rug down, ran out, and
kissed him with both arms round his neck.

You've been very kind," she whispered.
*' Good night."

And she ran back into her room and shut
the door, fearing lest another outbreak of anger

or jealousy on his part should frighten her and
make her regret the impulse which had at last
closed the somewhat trying interview peacefully.
She heard nothing for a few moments ; then he
came close to the door and called her softly; but
before she could answer he had walked away.

Yet the remembrance of his visit and of his
last words had impressed her so strongly that
all through a night in which she rested very
badly, whenever she woke up she fancied she
heard her husband's steps up and down the
corridor, stopping for a few moments whenever
they reached her door.

The next morning she felt heavy and
stupid ; but, retaining a vivid remembrance of
the events of the night before, she began to
wonder whether it was possible that a man who
had been so kind as  in the face of the provocation
her conduct had undoubtedly given
him  her husband had certainly shown himself,
could connive at such an inhuman scheme
for getting rid of a man he hated as that to
which James had nearly fallen a victim. When
she came down to breakfast, she found that, in
spite of his boasts, he was suffering from a

violent cold ; but he greeted her so kindly and
watched her so solicitously during the meal that
she half resolved to take the bold course of
appealing to his generosity, confessing her deep
anxiety to see James's innocence established,
and even asking him to help her. Then, if he
would only receive her appeal kindly, the awful
barrier which now stood between them might
be removed, and she could try to yield him that
wifely love and duty which he still, under all his
schemes for revenge, seemed most humanly to
crave.

But just as she was making a hesitating step
to the window where Captain Morrison stood,
when breakfast was over, lighting his cigar,
Doctor Ledbury, who had been watching her
as vigilantly, if not as tenderly, as her husband,
anticipated her by speaking a few words in a
low voice to his host, who instantly went with
him through the conservatory into the garden.
Geraldine watched them with dull eyes, feeling
that this interview boded ill to her plan. However,
she contrived to meet her husband alone
soon after his return with the doctor to the house ;
but the cloud of anger and mistrust had again

f

settled on his face, and she did not dare even to
attempt to dispel it. So she went up to her
own room  for the old schoolroom, which had
been fitted up as a boudoir for her, was not
sacred from Elizabeth's intrusion  and after
some thought, wrote the following letter

My dear Ada,

'* I enclose a photograph you gave
me in the old times, as token that neither you
nor Lindley have anything further to fear from
me. I am so ill that I cannot write myself, ill
from a cause I do not dare to name to you ; but
I want you to tell Lindley that the doctor in
whom he trusted, betrayed his confidence, that
I hold the proofs of this, and that I mean to
use them. I cannot believe that Lindley was a
party to this treatment of me ; the best thing
he can now do for himself is to confide everything
to Mrs. Morrison, who is writing this forme,
and who is one of my witnesses to the cause
of my illness. For the sake of the family, if
for no other, she would take care that Lindley
should not suffer, if he would help her by telling
the whole story now. But, if he does not do

this, It can scarcely fail to go hard with him in
the investigation which will soon be opened.
** Yours very sincerely,

*' Harry Hammond."

Geraldine was at first in some doubt about
the signature ; but, as she had never seen
James's signature of his assumed name, and
as she was a little diffident about committing
a forgery, she simply signed the name in her
own handwriting, as if the sender of the letter
had been too ill to hold a pen at all. Before
despatching this she determined to see Mr.
Crosse ; so she ordered the brougham for
twelve, and ran through the wood as fast as
she could towards his house. It was now
half-past eleven.

As she had expected, the appearance of
Captain Morrison and the disappearance of
James  facts of which Johnson, the butler at
the Hall, had informed him within a few hours
of their occurrence, had made him cautious of
interference in the matter. He was quite as
firm as ever in his denial of the possibility of
a league between a gentleman and a poisoner,

I

J

and the conclusion to which the appearance of
Doctor Ledbury with the master of the Hall
led him was that James, who had fully qualified
himself for the post of scape-goat, had hatched
up a story to wake her sympathy for himself.
The old doctor begged her not to do anything
rash, and strongly advised her to confide everything
to her husband.

Even a bad husband is generally the best
counsellor a wife can have, Mrs. Morrison'*
said he emphatically, 'because, you see, his
honour and his interests are bound up in hers.
But, with all 'deference to the different judgment
at which I am afraid you have arrived
on the matter, I don't think Captain Morrison
is a bad husband, and I am quite sure that he
is not a bad man. His head and his heart are
both too easily fired ; but in the end I fancy
that nobody but himself is much the worse for
the conflagration."

To this peroration Geraldine listened attentively,
and with about as much show of
intending to profit by it as advice against
the grain usually produces ; and she drove to
Goldborough, and with her own hands posted

VOL. HI. 47

the letter to Mrs. Fielding. When this first
step towards the unravelling of the mystery
had been taken, she had leisure to consider
another strange aspect of it, and to wonder
what was the reason of Doctor Ledbury's
remaining at the Hall now that he had satisfied
himself that James was no longer there.
The latter had told her in his letter that he
should return to London to seek his "only
friend " again : and Geraldine came to the
conclusion that the arrival of James in town
at the place where he had left Doctor Ledbury
would be the signal for the doctor's departure
from Waringham. She therefore resolved on
the bold course of setting a detective to watch
the doctor's movements as soon as he was out
of her sight ; and, as in such a matter she felt
the need of a man's advice, she determined to
find means of consulting Reginald Bamber,
who came from town every Saturday evening
to spend Sunday at the Vicarage. She thought
that by this time her husband's jealousy was sufficiently
diverted into another channel for her
to be able to do this without difficulty. As
this was Saturday, she had not long to wait ;

but before the day was over a new source
of anxiety growing up in the very midst of
the life at the Hall diverted her attention and
suggested a nearer field for her investigations.

She returned home just in time for luncheon,
and as soon as she was seated at the table,
Geraldine asked if any one had been to see
Mrs. Symes, who had kept her room since
the preceding afternoon ; the housekeeper was
getting so old now that the office she was
reluctant to give up had become almost a
sinecure, and an occasional indisposition of a
day or two had no disastrous effects on the
daily routine of the household.

I have just come from her room," said
Miss Eleanor. " I have been reading to her
for nearly an hour to cheer her up ; she seems
very depressed and melancholy, and won't be
left alone. It seems she had Martha to sleep
m her room, and as soon as the girl went away
she sent for Susan."

'' Poor old lady! I should think high spirits
never were her strong point," said Captain
Morrison. ** I suppose you found her difficult
to amuse, Miss Otway } "

I did not try to amuse her, Captain
Morrison ; I did my best to comfort her, as.
she seemed uneasy in mind. I am sure I
don't know what she can have to reproach
herself with. As far as our human eyes can
see, she seems to have led as blameless a life
as our frailty will permit."

Mental uneasiness, due to bodily infirmity
probably," said Doctor Ledbury. " I will go up
this afternoon and see if a prescription will not
aid the effect of your consolation, Miss Otway."

Oh no, Doctor Ledbury, I must beg you
not to, really. I suggested that she should
have advice, and you cannot imagine what a
distressing effect it had upon her. There is
nothing seriously the matter with her, and now
she is so old I believe the idea of seeing a
doctor makes her think she must be going to
die. She quite frightened me by the contortions
of her face and limbs when I spoke to
her about it."

Captain Morrison laughed ; so did the
doctor himself.

'' She seems to have formed an unflattering
opinion of your profession, doctor."

But to more than one of the ladies it
occurred that the name of Doctor Ledbury recalled
to the housekeeper the illness and death
of her old master. To Geraldine this idea was
so suggestive that a light broke over her face
as it entered her mind. Eleanor continued
the conversation in her own way with the somewhat
trite reflections which occurred to her 

"It is curious how much more loudly conscience
seems to cry out in innocent people
than in guilty ones. She asked me to read
something about the punishments of Heaven
on evil-doers ; and, when I read her some of
the Psalms, she seemed much excited at the
passages where David curses his enemies, the
wicked."

'' But I should think she applied the curses
to her enemies, the wicked, too."

Oh, Captain Morrison, what enemies can
the poor old woman have ? I should "

'' That sort of wandering is a common
feature of dotage," interrupted Doctor Led-bury
abruptly.

'' But she is not in her dotage, I assure
you ! " persisted Eleanor, rather nettled by the

suggestion, for the housekeeper was very few
years older than herself. "Her faculties are
perfectly good ; but she has never got over brother's
death ; she cannot bear any allusion
to it ; she " The old lady suddenly remembered
that it was an awkward topic to
have introduced, since she could not well
pursue, before the physician who had attended
her brother, the account of the way in which
the housekeeper sighed and trembled and
shook her head at every mention of Sir
Charles's illness.

'' The shock of her master s death no doubt
hastened her break-up," said Doctor Ledbury.
'rand I have no hesitation in saying that at
that time her intellectual faculties were already
in a state of decay."

*' Oh, that is because you had not known:
her before. She has always been like that ! "
said Eleanor, ingenuously.

Doctor Ledbury can see signs which
escape you and me, Eleanor," said Elizabeth,
who saw that their guest's handsome face was.
contracting at this attempt to argue against his
superior knowledge.

I

If Miss Otway had been at her brother's
bedside at that time, the signs I speak of could
hardly have failed to be as apparent to her as
to me," said the doctor gravely.

And poor Eleanor was far too much crushed
by this united attack to suggest that the
physician, having denied admission to the sickroom
to her sister, would certainly not have
accorded it to herself.

Every one felt relieved when this rather
painful episode was brought to an end, and
Geraldine opened the discussion of the afternoon
arrangements. Captain Morrison wished
their guest to see the few beauties of a remarkably
unpicturesque neighbourhood, and his
wife and Miss Elizabeth were to go also.
Geraldine dressed quickly for the drive, in
order to get a few minutes talk with Mrs.
Symes ; but, quick as she was, Elizabeth had
forestalled her, a fact which suggested that
the household bogey, in whose presence the
housekeeper was of course mute, had been
put on guard ; for the mysterious doctor was
on quite as good terms with the younger Miss
Otway as with his host. She tried again, on

her return, to get a tete-astute with Mrs. Symes ;
but on this occasion it was the doctor himself
who met her at the foot of the staircase, and
rather abruptly suggested that the old woman
had better not be subjected to the excitement
of any more visits that day.

*' If indeed you insist on going up to her,
Mrs. Morrison, I will take the liberty of accompanying
you," he said, in a tone so strange,
with such a calm suggestion of secret power,
that she faltered, and, instead of persisting,
said 

"- Have you seen her ? ''

'' Not yet," he answered quietly. " I was
afraid, after what Miss Otway said at dinner,
that the sight of me would do her more harm
than good. However, if it would set your
mind at rest "

No ! " said she sharply ; and then she
paused.

It was the first time she had met Doctor
Ledbury alone, and the total change of his
manner towards her bewildered and alarmed
her. He was no longer statuesque cold,
reserved, courteous ; his face and attitude

expressed nothing but insulting defiance. She
considered for a few moments as she stood
under his impertinent scrutiny, and then she
raised her head, and said quietly 

'rit is very good of you to take such an
Interest in the poor old thing, Doctor Ledbury,
and I dare say you are right about the excitement.
I will get the Vicar to come and see
her, for I can give you my word his discourses
are not of an exciting kind."

And, with a smile, she turned away ; but
he followed her.

'' Mrs. Morrison, if you will allow me, I
have something to say to you." His voice
was raised above its usual almost inaudible
tones, and sounded harsh and strident. But
she pretended not to hear, and hastened along
the corridor towards the front staircase, on
which she could hear her husband's footsteps
coming up. At that moment, in her anxiety
to escape from the doctor, who, in those few
moments of unreserve, had made a profound
impression upon her by the unexpected assumption
of the boldest confidence In look and tone,
she was ready to welcome the appearance of

any one to break up the tete-astute. But, before
Captain Morrison came in sight, Doctor Led-bury
had caught her up in a couple of strides,
and whispered close to her ear, as she shrank
away, " Why put it off ? I tell you I will
speak to you alone ; and the sooner you give
me an opportunity the better it will be for 
some one you are interested in."

You had better say what you have to say
to my husband, whom I shall at once inform
of your remarkable change of manner."

Oh, do so, by all means ! Tell your
husband  your loving husband  that I have
insulted you ; and then he will kick me out
of the house, and I shall be free to set about
some business I have on hand."

She gave a cry, started forward, and almost
fell against her husband, who had just set foot
on the top stair.

Hallo, what's the matter ? " he asked.

For a moment she hesitated, confused and
breathless, as her husband drew her towards
him and looked anxiously into her frightened
eyes. Then, glancing behind her, she saw
that Doctor Ledbury had disappeared ; but

i

the Influence of his hard face and voice was
upon her still, his last words had borne a
horrible meaning to her, and she dared not
betray him. Her husband was caressing her,,
not prepared for any awful disclosure.

'' What is the matter ? " he repeated, whispering
the words close to her ear.

Oh, nothing ! I came upon you unexpectedly,"
she faltered.

'well, I'm not an ogre! Who were you
talking to ? I heard some one talking."

'' Only Doctor Ledbury. He told me I
had better not disturb Mrs. Symes ; I thought
I should just have time to go and see how she
is before dinner. Now I must go and dress."

After the first moment of impulsive gladness
to get away from Doctor Ledbury, her usual
constraint towards her husband had returned.

'* You are in a great hurry to get away
from me," said he, with some bitterness, without,
however, releasing her. " Look here !
You are so frank In your undutifulness, and so
loyal to yourself in your disloyalty to me, that
they haven't been able to make me hate you or
even really doubt you  yet ; but, If you persist

in repulsing me  me  your husband  whom
you seem to forget you have sworn to love
as well as obey, why, why, I shall end by
cutting somebody's throat  not my own, for
that I don't suppose you would mind ! "

Yes, I should, Philip ; yes, I should'' she
cried hurriedly. " I must tell you, I  I wanted
to speak to you this morning, only I couldn't
get the chance. I had something very important
to say to you. I "

The words froze on her lips ; for, as she
stood there, with her husband's arm round her,
and with one of her hands laid persuasively
on his shoulder, her face lovely with the light
and colour which the excitement of confusion
brought there, a step behind her made her
start, and her husband withdrew his arm.
Doctor Ledbury appeared, smiling urbanely
from the turn in the corridor.

Have you dropped a letter, Mrs. Morrison
? " he asked, in his usual soft voice, and
with his usual dignified manner.

Geraldine could not repress a slight start,
and a still more tell-tale rush of blood to her
face. Her husband noticed both signs, and his

dark face became livid as hers became red
The doctor proceeded imperturbably, apparently
noticing none of these things.

Because I have just picked up a letter
from the floor ; I don't know whose it is."

Before he handed it to her, Geraldine had
entirely recovered herself, and was able to take
it from him with an air of perfect indifference.
It was a half-sheet of a letter from which the
beginning was missing ; it was in an unknown
hand, and the signature was that of a man she
had never heard of

No, it is not mine," she answered quietly,
with inward rage at having been tricked. For
she felt sure that it was part of one of his own
letters.

It had done its work, however; it had produced
in her a guilty start which far more than
counterbalanced in its effects on her husband's
mind that weak attempt at confidence which
the doctor had interrupted.

It had done more than this, for it had
given Geraldine a speedy and convincing proof
that the man's insolent words to her contained
more than an idle threat, that he was a strategist

of resource, an enemy to be feared. She
glanced from his bland, treacherous face, calm,
smiling, and handsome, to the savage frown of
her husband ; and the candid anger which distorted
the features of the latter seemed suddenly
attractive and noble in her eyes ; and in that
moment she was amazed to think that she had
ever looked upon Doctor Ledbury as her
husband's tool in a base and cowardly crime.
But as the two men went downstairs together,
the doctor murmuring speeches she could
not hear, in his low, persuasive voice, into
her husband's ear, she asked herself whether
the converse of that position was not more
dangerous still.

CHAPTER VI.

As she had been prepared to expect, Geraldlne
found no opportunity during the rest of the day
of seeing either Mrs. Symes or her husband
alone. As for the latter, while her belief in
his innocence of the real character of the man
whom he had brought to Waringham as his
guest grew stronger every hour, and her
anxiety to enlighten him increased in the same
proportion, she soon found that this step had
become practically as impossible as if there had
been a distance of a hundred miles between
them. The anger and suspicion against her
which showed themselves in every look and
word while she was in his presence had raised
!Up a barrier which her efforts were now as
powerless to break down as his had formerly
been to storm the fortress of dislike in which

she had obstinately entrenched herself. From
the moment when, In the company of Doctor M
Ledbury, Captain Morrison left his wife In the
corridor, and went downstairs towards the
library, the Impulses of tenderness which a
few gracious words or a sign of distress on her
part had hitherto been able to rouse in him
seemed dead. When they met again at dinner,
she saw at once the effects of the doctors
influence In her husband's mocking expression
as he looked at her, and in the cut-and-drled
sneers at women with which he, with bad taste
unusual in him, garnished his share In the
general conversation.

When, later in the evening, she tried the
device of playing his favourite music, spirited
marches, pretty waltzes, he failed, as he had
never before failed, to express appreciation of
the compliment. Doctor Ledbury made a
courteous attempt to atone for this neglect.
Leaving the rest gathered round the fireplace
in the long drawing-room, he crossed the room
to the corner where Geraldine sat at the piano ;
and, as if he had entirely forgotten the little
episode of a couple of hours ago in the corridor,

&


expressed his pleasure In her performance In
the terms of one who neither knew nor cared
much about music. Geraldlne received his
remarks with coldness, which did not disconcert
him In the least.

For myself," he continued, '' I like operatic
music best  Italian operatic music."

'' Lucretia Borgia, for example," she broke
In, looking at him with a quite unmistakable
expression of loathing.

He seemed taken aback by this speech,
the meaning of which he apparently understood.
But his face showed no shame and no
anger ; his features were Indeed naturally so
Immovable that the faint surprise and Inquiry
which her Implied accusation caused In him
were only to be guessed from a jerking
movement of the hand he had laid on the
piano, and from his momentary silence. His
next words were spoken In his usual low voice,
but with a threatening snarl.

Yes, Lucretia Borgia Is a very nice opera ;
it Is about poisoning, isn't It ? "

The man's cold and brutal boldness struck
her with such horror that she could not answer,

VOL. III. 48

could not look at him  her hands fell down
from the keys, and her eyes sought her husband
at the other end of the room In an impulse
which did not escape her companion.

It is of no use to call your husband ; you
have ruined yourself with him. It is I you
have to deal with now. If you call him now,
what can you say against me that he will
believe ? Listen  I have no ill-will against
you, luckily for you. But, if you don't chose
to give me an interview some time before
Monday morning, where nobody can overhear
us, I swear I'll do ago's work between you
and your husband, and you know who I shall
turn my attention to next. Now call your
husband, if you dare."

He poured out these words quickly, in a
low voice, resting easily against the piano, as
if he were chatting about the most Indifferent
matter. Even the expression of his face
scarcely changed ; he kept his cold blue eyes
upon her with the straight, passionless stare
which habitually gave them an air of penetration
and superiority to human weakness, but
which now seemed to her, as she gave one

swift glance at him, nothing less than the
callous apathy of the ruffian. She started up
with a sharply drawn breath, her eyes wild, her
face pale and damp ; but the presence of this
man, with his inexhaustible insolence, paralysed
her ; and his mere whisper  " Take care ! " ashe
stepped back, as if to allow her to pass, was
enough to make her sink down again on to the
music-stool without uttering a word. Doctor
Ledbury picked up some music which she had
swept off the piano as she put out her hand
in rising.

Who are you ? What are you ? " she
whispered, as he bent down to replace before
her the piece she had been playing.

You shall know when you give me the
interview I have asked for."

This is an interview. Why can't you say
what you have to say now ? "

Because what I have to say to you may
cause you some emotion, and I dislike scenes
before witnesses. You need not be afraid of
me ; you can chose your own time and place,
or you can refuse altogether to give me the
interview, which, however, will be a pity, for
the sake of more than one person. Well ? "

I Will answer you  tomorrow."

Very well. But it must be early, because
on Monday I shall probably be going away."

Her expression changed to one of acute
terror ; ancj, satisfied that he had said enough
to gain his point and that to frighten the
woman more would be dangerous, he changed
his tone as she again rose, and talked easily on
indifferent subjects as they returned to the
group at the other end of the room.

The rest of the evening passed quietly, but
was uncomfortable for every one ; for the
master of the house, who seemed scarcely able
to endure the presence of his wife ; for the
wife herself, snubbed by him and forced to
converse with some semblance of amiability
with a man she feared and hated ; for Elizabeth,
who, during these last two days, had lost
some of her self-command and grown uneasy
and restless ; for Eleanor, on whom her sister s
uneasiness found vent ; and, possibly, for the
imperturbable guest himself, who had several
delicate and difficult affairs on hand in the
Waringham household.

The following day was Sunday. Gerald fine

put her last hope on the possibility of a conversation
with Reginald Bamber, the only coolheaded
and trustworthy friend she had. As
she could not get an opportunity of speaking
to him privately as they came out of church,
she boldly asked him to luncheon ; and he
returned with the Hall party. Before the meal
was half over, Geraldine had the satisfaction of
seeing that this move was a wise one ; for the
first time since his arrival at Waringham,
Doctor Ledbury, in the presence of the Vicar's
son, seemed ill at ease. After luncheon,
Doctor Ledbury himself gave her the opportunity
she wanted by lingering behind with
Captain Morrison, over whom his influence
continued to increase, when they strolled out
into the garden to enjoy the fleeting warmth
and brightness of an afternoon fair for late
November. As soon as she had drawn a little
way ahead with Reginald, she said hurriedly 

I want yoii to help me. I am in such
terrible distress and anxiety that I cannot even
think."

You know very well that I shall be most
happy to do anything I can "

'' Yes, yes, I know," she interrupted gratefully,
not in the least rebuffed by the calm
commonplace of his speech. " I don't know
whether you will understand  I can't tell you
properly  I am afraid of their coming up."
She was terribly nervous and excited ; so he
helped her out with her story.

You are afraid of your husband's friend,
for one thing, I can see."

'' Oh, yes, I am, and with terrible reason !
He has tried to kill James ; it is true, indeed it
is. Do pretend to believe me, at least. You
heard about the burglary here ? Well, it
wasn't a burglar ; it was James. And this man
has come in search of him, and when he finds
him he will kill him ; so I want to have a
detective set to watch this ' doctor ' when he
leaves here ; he is going tomorrow."

'' Isn't he the doctor Mr. Fielding brought
to see Sir James ? "

'' Yes ; but I don't believe he is a doctor at
all."

That is very likely Have you told your
husband your suspicions ? "

'' No. It would be of no use. They are

inseparable. At first I thought the man was
a tool of my husband's ; but now I am sure he
is not, he is too wicked ; my husband will end
by being a tool of his."

You must prevent that. You must tell
Captain Morrison your suspicions ; you
must "

I cannot. This man has already made
the breach between us wider than it was before ;
he is so confident of his power in the house
that he threatens to exasperate my husband
still further against me unless I give him a
secret interview. He declares he has something
important to tell me. I don't know what to do."

'' You must speak to your husband without
the man's knowledge "

That is impossible."

"You must find a way. And then you
must tell him everything, not keeping back
the least thing about James or any one else."
She shook her head hopelessly. " I tell you
you must. What ? You would rather give
this infamous impostor an interview, in which
he might frighten you out of your life, than
throw yourself into the hands of a man of

such generous Impulses as your husband ? No
breach between you could justify such a course,
and nothing In the world is so likely to heal
the breach as an opportunity of this kind for
you to appeal to his kindness."

But I tell you I have tried to get an
opportunity, and I cannot. They are together
from morning till night."

'' But not from night till morning. Give
me your word that before breakfast-time tomorrow
you will have found means of seeing
your husband alone, and of using them to
make a full confession of all you have done
for James, and all you know about the doctor ;
and In return I will promise to do my very
utmost to bring this scoundrel  I believe,
you see, that he is a scoundrel  to justice.
But, if you refuse to give me your word, why
then I am afraid I must say that any attempt
to help you would be useless and dangerous,
and I should have to decline to make It."
Oh, you are cruel ! "
Will you give me your word ? "
*' My husband will kill me ! You must
have noticed how he looks at me now."

Will you give me your word ? "

She struggled with herself, and then
answered 

Yes. I don't believe I shall be alive
at breakfast-time tomorrow now," she added
piteously.

Very well. Go to him, prepared for the
worst, if you like. You know very v/ell the
worst will be a long way short of that. And,
in return, you have my promise."

She looked up at him, relieved in mind
already now that she was pledged to a course
of action ; and she wondered, with bitter
remorse, how she could ever have dared to
slight this man's love to accept her husband's.
But the latter would hardly have been jealous,
had he even known of this feeling ; for the
sentiment which caused her to look up with
gratitude, too shy and too deep to be easily
expressed, was not so much regret at having
missed a noble love, as remorse at having
committed a sacrilege. He began talking
about old Miss Gretton, asking whether she
had heard from her lately, to give Mrs. Morrison
an opportunity of recovering her self-command

before they joined her husband and
Doctor Ledbury. As, soon after, he left, to
return to the Vicarage, Reginald gave her hand
a firm pressure to remind her of her promise
and of his own, and to encourage her to a
firmness which, as she thus took leave of her
only friend, she was far from feeling.

During the rest of the day, during which,
in spite of her pallor and of her haggard,
anxious looks, her husband never looked at
or spoke to her kindly, she carefully avoided
the tete-a-tetc which Doctor Ledbury as carefully
sought. As the evening wore on, she grew
flushed and nervous, and distressed Eleanor
very much by the oddly inappropriate remarks
she made on some zenana mission reports
which the old lady was reading out to her.

Really, Geraldine, you are answering as
if you did not feel the least interest in the
good work these Christian ladies are carrying
on out there," she complained peevishly.

Yes, I do indeed. Aunt Eleanor," answered
Geraldine, rallying her thoughts, and, in her
haste to appear Interested, unwisely letting fall
her real opinions on the subject. " Don't you

think the air of superiority these good mission-women,
who would only pass for half-educated
and particularly narrow-minded people over
here, give themselves over the Indian ladies,
must be a drawback to their success ? "

'' But they are superior, Geraldlne. They
are Christians, and they are English. And, if
they are half-educated, why, the Indian ladies
are not educated at all."

I should like to go out there and find out
whether that is so."

*' Geraldlne ! You ! Leave your home
and your husband ! What would Captain
Morrison say ? "

*' He would say," said that gentleman, wheeling
his chair round and looking full into his
wife's face for the first time that day, " that
she is very welcome to go if she pleases."

Though Eleanor took this for a jest, the
tone in which it was spoken made her rather
uncomfortable ; but the words, coming at the
moment when she was summoning her courage
for the ordeal of a crucial interview with him,
cut Geraldine like a knife. For a few moments
she told herself that it was impossible to keep

her promise ; but the sight of the imperturbable
doctor, stroking his beard and talking softly
to Elizabeth in the contented belief that he
held the conduct of affairs in the house safely
in his hands, nerved her again to the contest.
When the ladies retired that night, leaving the
gentlemen to go and smoke a last cigar in the
library, Geraldine fled upstairs with loudly-beating
heart, and, without summoning Aurelie,
exchanged the rustling silk gown she wore
for a cashmere dressing-gown, slipped softly
through the corridor to her husband's room,
and secreted herself in the big cupboard
between the window and the fireplace. It
seemed to her a very long time before she heard
any sound but the faint crackling of the fire ;
when at last she heard the shutting of a door
downstairs, soon afterwards the voices of her
husband and his guest, and the footsteps of
the former coming towards his door, her breath
came so fast and her heart beat so loudly
that she fancied he would detect her presence
as soon as he entered the room. But she was
mistaken ; he came in, locked the door,
walked sharply to the fireplace, wheeled the

armchair that stood by the hearth rug round
to the fire, and threw himself into it. She
had left the cupboard-door open by about
half an inch, and she cautiously widened the
aperture a little more under cover of the noise
made by these movements of his. For he sat
with his back to the cupboard, whence she
could now watch him with impunity. She saw
him take something from one of his pockets and
bend over it intently. From the sound of the
turning of the leaves she knew he was reading
something ; by his impatient movements and
ejaculations she guessed that it was something
which excited and angered him. Her curiosity
to learn what it was that occupied his attention
rose high ; and, when he started up, dashing
down on the floor what looked to her like
a large pocket-book, and hissing out " Curse
him ! " as he began pacing up and down the
room, she grew so anxious that, in spite of
the terror his fierce mood inspired In her, It
was with difficulty that she restrained herself
from rushing out from her hiding-place to
gain possession of the interesting book. But
upon this impulse followed the reflection that

it would be useless if not dangerous to appeal
to him now ; and she had almost decided to
wait until he retired to his dressing-room, at
the door of which he was already standing,
when his mood suddenly changed, she heard
him heave a long sigh, and the next moment
she saw him return to the fireplace, throw
himself again in the armchair, and lean forward
with his elbows upon his knees and his
head in his hands.

Geraldine watched him anxiously, a feeling
of pity for him mingling with her fear, as she
recalled Mr. Crosse's opinion that he himself
was the worst sufferer from the heat of
his own temperament. It was evident, as he
remained still and silent in the same position,
that the fury she had witnessed in his face
a few minutes ago had given place to some
feeling probably as deep, but less violently
demonstrative ; and she decided that she must
consider this an opportunity.

Captain Morrison was startled in the midst
of his reflections by a light touch, a perfume of
violets, a low whisper, all meeting his senses
at once. He raised his head and saw his wife

kneeling on the floor by the side of his chair,
very pale, very timid, with imploring eyes.

Philip ! " she repeated, as he stared at
her without any change from the dead look of
stern, hopeless misery his features had worn
before her appearance.

Again he did not answer. This reception
alarmed her more than an outburst of anger
would have done. She put her hand again
upon his arm and said tremulously 

Won't you speak to me ? Don't be angry
with me. I have come to do what is right,
to tell you everything you want to know, to
ask you to forgive me for what I have done
wrong."

He shrugged his shoulders with a guttural
exclamation which he meant for a laugh, and
shook her hand off and rose from the chair, as
if by an effort.

You are too modest. You have done no
wrong. You have shown proper spirit to a
tyrant. You have been loyal  unflinchingly
loyal to a worthless and vicious man, in spite
of reason, in spite of his desertion, in spite of
the advances of a husband once foolish enough

to love you. Your conduct is more than right ;
it is heroic ! ''

He did not look at her, and, as he finished
speaking, he turned to the mantelpiece and,
with a sudden assumption of indifference to
the subject under discussion, proceeded to wind
up the travelling-clock which stood there : but
he broke the spring. His wife got up from the
floor and watched him, with her hand resting on
the back of the chair from which he had risen.
After a few minutes' silence, she began again 

Won't you listen to me kindly, Philip ? "

''If you have anything to say, you can say
it, of course ; and I must hear it, since you have
forced your way into my room for that purpose''

I cannot speak out while you answer me
so coldly ; it paralyzes me ! "

Ah ! So you have found that out now.
By Jove, I wish I had used your weapon before!"

'rand if I have forced my way into your
room, surely that is not such a great liberty in
your wife ! "

My wife  my wife ! But you are not my
wife, madam ! " he burst out, with fiery eyes,
his indifference gone and his forbearance with

it. "What! A woman who shudders if my
hand touches hers, who thinks she yields mean
inestimable favour if she offers a cold cheek
to my yearning lips, or submits, stiff as a figure
of wax, to the passionate pressure of my arms !
A woman who keeps her sighs, her tears, her
sympathy, her kisses too, for all I know, fora
scoundrel escaped from his right place among
the scum of the earth ! A woman who hates
me, deceives me, wounds me, and would give
her eyes to be able to despise me too ! And
who might have succeeded in that  for, God
knows, I was fool enough to have some sort
of faith  some sort of trust through it all  if
luckily my eyes had not been opened to my
own folly. I forgive your intrusion as the
privileged impertinence of a spoilt woman ;
but the right to enter my room you forfeited
when you left it, in spite of my earnest entreaties,
of your own accord."

This outburst shocked Geraldine and almost
stunned her. Reflection had suggested to her
lately that the fault of the breach between
them was not all on one side ; sorrow had
made her more sympathetic towards the sorrow
VOL. in. 49

of Others. His case against her was starting
strong in the way he put it ; and there was
enough of truth in it, even to her, to make
her feel guilty and look humble as he ended
his fiery protest. Naturally, howsoever, the
woman had plenty to say for herself still.

'then, if I'm not your wife, Philip," she
began again slowly, and in a seductively gentle
and faltering voice, " of course you can hear me
more impartially. And, as what I have to tell
you, therefore, won't interest you much, I can tell
it quickly and go away and leave you in peace."

She made a slight pause here ; but all he
said was 

'' Well ? "

I wish to say that the man who broke
into the house on Thursday night was not a
burglar, but James Otway."

I knew that."

The suspicions you cast upon him and me
are wholly without foundation. He is ruined,
hunted, broken-down ; he looks upon me as the
sister I have been to him since he found mea
baby-child, twenty years ago." Here her
husband gave her a look of the most eloquent

incredulity ; but she continued  " If I had not
found out your cruel intentions towards him,
you would never have had reason for a moment's
jealousy of him or anybody else."

I think your notions of a woman's duties
as a sister and duties as a wife have got rather
mixed," said he drily.

'' Not more than yours as a husband and as
an executioner ! "

He turned upon her sharply.

You forget. I offered to give up the one
role or the other ; it was you yourself who
decided which of the two I should keep."

Give me the choice again, Philip. I know
better now  I know you better now," she
pleaded, not lovingly indeed, but with the
meekness of despairing misery.

'' I think not. You don't know me at all
well, if you think I mistake the nature of the
feelings which prompt you. When I offered
to sacrifice my revenge for you, your hatred of
me was stronger than your fear, and showed
itself in the manner of your reply with a plainness
I can never forget. Now that fortune has
put proofs against you into my hands, your fear

has grown even stronger than your hatred, and
would perhaps enable you, if I were as blind as
I once was, to deceive me for a few moments 
long enough to get an oath from me  into the
belief that there was some spark of womanly
gratitude down in your heart. But I am not
blind now, or so foolish as to make any mistake
about the amount of your regard for me."

He poured out his words vehemently and
without pause ; but the sobs into which she
broke, without attempting to interrupt him, disturbed
him and caused his voice to become a
little uneven before he came to the end.

'' What  what proo-oofs do you mean ? "
she sobbed, getting to the pith of his discourse
through all her emotion.

He picked up the pocket-book which she
had forgotten, and said shortly  I

** Perhaps that will satisfy you." |

She dried her eyes and opened it without
any appearance of trepidation ; for, after all,
there was nothing very serious now that her
husband did not know. It was a pocket-book
very similar to the older one she had examined
just after her guardian's death, and which she

now knew had belonged to James In his assumed
name of Harry Hammond. This one
contained entries made in the same screwing,
unrecognizable hand, and in the same irregular
and unmethodical fashion, and she was startled
to find that there were frequent passages in
which she herself, as '' Deldee," was alluded to
with fervour and fondness, of which James's
somewhat constrained manner when in her presence
had given no indication. Her husband
saw her start, and gave a savage exclamation 

'' Perhaps you will deny that * H. H.' is
James Otway, or that ' Deldee ' is Geraldine
Morrison ? "

'' No, I shall not," said she promptly,
looking up now quite calmly. " But I should
like to know who told you so."

*' That has nothing to do with it. It is
enough that this diary shows distinctly that
James Otway is in love with you, which you
have denied ; and "

But stop ! " she interrupted, shaking with
emotion which was no longer fear of her husband.
" This proves nothing but James's
loyalty. It shows that he is much fonder ot

me than I thought  than he ever let me see
that he was. You must have seen just now
that I was surprised  astonished. I swear to
you he never let me believe he cared for me so
much I "

You talk as if it were a very noble thing
to love another man's wife and drivel out
maudlin sentiment about her in a diary like
a school-girl. Perhaps this will change your
view of the matter." He snatched the pocketbook
impatiently from her hands and pointed
out to her another leaf in the diary, on which
was the following entry 

'' Saw the wife who was not my wife to-day,
almost without any feeling whatever. Seems
rather soon to have got over it. Fickleness or
philosophy  which ? "

Geraldine read it and lifted her head quickly.

'' That entry does not refer to your sister,
as you think. In a few days, I believe I shall
be able to prove to you who it does refer to.
In the mean time, doesn't it seem to you strange
that in these entries, which date, I see, from
last July, the time when you believe James and
your sister to have been travelling abroad together,

there should be no other reference
which can be supposed to apply to her ? "

The person who gave me this pocket-book
owned to having torn out some leaves, which,
he said  I  I mean  which could only have
caused me unnecessary pain. You can see that
some leaves are missing."

But did not Doctor  the person who gave
you this pocket-book  himself direct your attention
to that passage about a wife who was no
wife ? Ah, I thought so ! " she cried, as he
looked astonished. "And I am certain those
missing leaves were torn out for a very different
reason."

'' What do you mean ? "

'' That those leaves would have shown
enough of the course of James's daily thoughts
and actions during the last five months to
prove to you his innocence of all the charges
brought against him. Oh, I have felt sure he
was innocent so long ; and to-night I have seen
what are to me the proofs of it  thank Heaven ! "

Her thanksgiving was so pure, so unconcealed,
as she stood before him, with frightened
face and clasped hands, that it rather allayed

than inflamed her husband's jealousy. After a
few moments' pause, however, he broke out 

You talk nonsense ! That pocket-book
was put into my hands by James Otway's best
friend. It was in that character he first became
acquainted with me."

'' You mean Doctor Ledbury. How did you
first meet him ? "

I don't see how that concerns you. However,
it will prove to you he is what he professes
to be  James Otway's friend, and quite
incapable of any such purposeless meanness as
you accuse him of. I was coming down hereon
Friday, when he got into the same carriage,
and, without knowing who I was, he presently
told me, when we had entered into conversation,
that he was going to Waringham in search
of a patient of his who had been suffering from
delirium tremens, and who had escaped from
his care ; and he presently let out that it was
the patient's attachment to a lady ' living thereabouts
'  that was all the doctor would admit
which led him to search for him in that part
of the world. I found out who the patient was
by naming him unexpectedly. That led to my

inviting the doctor, telling him how I was connected
with Otway by marriage, without mentioning
any other connection with him you maybe
sure. Now are you satisfied ? "

"Quite," responded Geraldine, whose eyes
were glittering brightly with excitement. " I
am quite satisfied that the ' doctor ' knew who
you were, made the first advances to you  who
are reserved and never talk of your own accord
to strangers  and that he has ever since been
trying, in one subtle way or another, to prejudice
your mind still further against James
Otway, necessarily involving me in that attempt,
until you have become so bitter against me that
my only chance of getting your ear for a
moment is by intruding upon you at night ; and
even now I can scarcely feel that I am safe
from his influence," she added, with a shuddering
glance round the room.

What has put all this into your head ? "
asked Captain Morrison uneasily. 'what
motive could Doctor Ledbury possibly have
for doing all this ? Be reasonable. It is nonsense
! What motive could he have ? "

Geraldine's eyes were fixed upon the door.

'' I don't know," she almost whispered.
Then, suddenly coming close to her husband,
she said, low in his ear  " That is what I came
for to-night  to warn you that whatever revenge
you may take now will satisfy, not your sense
of justice, but some motive neither you nor I
know of the man who is our guest. I don't
know who he is or what he is ; but I know
something about him which I dare not tell you
now  you would not believe me  but it is
something which has made your fearful idea of
revenge seem divinely right by comparison.
Promise me to see me to my room to-night, for
I dare not go alone."

As she still whispered, her voice grown a
little louder, there was a knock at the door, and
she fell to shuddering and shivering so that
her husband had put her gently in a chair before
he went to the door, unlocked and opened it.
The late visitor was the soft-voiced doctor.

I beg your pardon a thousand times for
disturbing you so late. Captain Morrison. But
I have just been called up to see the housekeeper
; she is very ill indeed, and she begged
me to go and ask if Mrs. Morrison would come

to see her  she has something important to say,
she says. I am afraid the old lady is dying ; so
perhaps, if Mrs. Morrison has not yet retired for
the night, she would not mind."

Geraldine came forward to the door with
trembling steps.

Will you come too, Philip ? " she asked,
with imploring eyes which it was impossible to
resist.

And they all three, the lady first, with the
doctor speaking to her, Captain Morrison
following, went along the corridor towards the
staircase which led to the upper storey. Of
course it did not occur to Captain Morrison to
suspect that his guest knew that he and his
wife did not share the same room ; but Geraldine
was certain that he was not only aware of
that fact, but that he had been listening at the
door, and had chosen this means, not only of
breaking off the dangerous tete-astute, but of
eaininof that interview with her which he was
determined to have. Thanks to her husband's
yielding to her appeal, she could baffle him yet,
for she would not have dared a conversation
with him alone to-night for a thousand worlds.

They came to the staircase, and the doctor had
to drop behind her as they went up. When
nearly at the top, she turned to make sure that
her husband was following, and met the cold
eyes of the doctor, who held his hand round the
flickering candle as her twirling skirts raised a
wind round the feeble light. She looked behind
him with straining eyes and gasping breath 
her husband was not there.

With a faint cry, she tried to rush down
past the doctor, who very calmly barred the way.

'' You have nothing to fear," said he coolly,
unless you make a disturbance. Your husband
would not have gone back if you had been
in any danger ; but in his presence Mrs. Symes
would have been as mute as a mouse ; and she
has something to say to you which it is very
important that you should hear. Go on ! "

He waved his hand imperiously in the direction
of Mrs. Shyness room, which was only a
few yards from the top of the staircase. Cold,
dumb, and half-stupefied by fear, Geraldine
moved her tottering feet in the direction he
indicated.

CHAPTER VII.

The second storey of Waringham Hall was like
the first, a labyrinth of awkward passages and
draughty rooms. All the structural defects of
the lower storey were of course accentuated In
this less-important region, where indifference
had combined with lack of skill to render the
low-ceiling rooms dark, ill-ventilated, and uncomfortable.
The bedroom of the housekeeper,
while by no means free from these defects, was,
however, larger and more habitable than most
of the rest ; and the fire which was now kept
burning day and night gave it a look of cheerfulness
which made a stronger impression upon
a visitor than upon its permanent occupant, who
lay awake hour after hour watching the flickering
of red light and black shadow upon walls

and ceiling, listening to the crackling of the fire
and to the weird music of the wind, every note of
which, from the first faint wail which rustled the
branches of the trees below to the hurricane
which in mid-winter seemed to set the old house
rocking, was heard with double clearness in this
high corner-room.

On the night when Doctor Ledbury brought
his hostess to the upper storey, Mrs. Symes was
lying, as usual, with her hollow eyes staring up
at the dancing reflections of the fire, when a
slight sound, which was not the wind nor any
of the faint night-noises of shrinking wood or
scurrying mice to which she was accustomed,
made her turn her head uneasily on her pillow.
The one keen faculty she had, that of hearing,
seemed to have grown more acute than ever in
the general decay of her frame. The expression
of alarm, which during the past seven months
her withered features had borne with the rigidity
of stone, deepened as the muscles of her face
contracted, and she struggled to raise herself,
calling to the kitchen-maid, who was snoring
peacefully on a made-up bed in the corner of
the room. It was not until she had been addressed

for some time in vain that Martha, with
ungracious grunts and groans, sat up, still half
asleep, and grumbled out 

'' What is it ? "

'' Get up and go to the door, and see if you
can't hear something," croaked the old woman,
whose frightened and consequently doubly hag-like
aspect, as she supported herself on one
elbow and pointed with a long, yellow, bony
hand, drew an exclamation of terror from
Martha, as she most unwillingly turned out of
bed and shuffled towards the door.

I don't hear anything, Mrs. Symes. It's
only one of your fancies," said the girl, who
was not disposed to be respectful when called
needlessly out of bed in the middle of the night.
'' If you like, I'll open the door and put my
head out."

No, no, no ; don't unlock it, don't unlock
it ! " cried the old woman vehemently.

'' Poke the fire, and speak out loud ; let 'em
hear your voice. It's all right but when I'm
alone," she muttered ; while the girl looked
at her in some alarm, thinking her mind was
wandering.

She took up the poker and obediently began
to talk as she used it,

If I was you, I'd see the doctor gentleman
what's staying in the house. I've heard
Mr. Johnson say he's offered to."

The old woman stopped her sharply.

*' Hold your tongue ! I won't see him, I
won't see him ! You don't know what you're

talking about, Martha ; and I tell you, if

What's that ? "

Martha heard nothing ; but the old woman's
sharper ears had caught the sound of a footstep
outside ; she started up in bed and repeated
"What's that?" more shrilly, at the same
moment that there was a soft tap at the door.

It is I, Mrs. Symes," said Geraldine's
voice.

'' You, ma'am ? " cried the housekeeper
curiously, trying to delay Martha by a gesture
as the oirl hurried to the door.

Mrs. Morrison's voice seemed altered ; but
the change which had come over her beautiful
features when the kitchen-maid had lit a candle
and admitted her was more striking still.
Terror as deep as that which had stamped



Itself In the furrows of the old face that stared
at her from the bed had drawn distorting lines
on Geraldine's beauty ; and the poor maid was
so much alarmed in her turn by the sight of
the two horror-struck faces, that, when her
mistress gently whispered to her to put on her
things and run to her own room, she obeyed
with great relief at parting with such depressing
company, tempered by an eerie predisposition
to see hobgoblins in the passage.

Did you send for me ? " Mrs. Morrison
asked, as soon as they were alone.

No, ma'am."

Has Doctor Ledbury been to see you ? "

Heaven help me ! No-o, ma'am." And
her teeth besan to chatter and her head to
shake, while Mrs. Morrison looked at her
eagerly.

'why do you answer me like that?" she
whispered, leaning over the bed so that her
words might travel no farther than the old
woman's ears. '' Are you afraid of him } What
do you know about him ? "

'' I durst tell, ma'am, even to you. They
said that, if I ever let it out "

VOL. III. 50

With a cry and a horrible rattling sound In
her throat, she stiffened her gaunt form and
fixed the gaze of her haggard, cavernous eyes
on some object behind her mistress. Geraldine
did not turn ; she knew what sight it was that
had affected the housekeeper so deeply, and she
quietly devoted her attention to calming her,
taking one long, withered claw-like hand in
hers, soothing her with assurances that she was
quite safe, and listening meanwhile to the soft
closing and locking of the door, and then to
the approaching footsteps behind her. The
old woman still stared, still muttered ; Geraldine
suddenly turned and faced Doctor Ledbury,
barring his nearer approach to the frightened
invalid.

Now," said she boldly, '' you have the
chance you wanted. Say what you have to
say."

I have nothing to say, Mrs. Morrison,"
he answered, with unexpected meekness, "and
I must apologize most humbly for having called
you up in the middle of the night, and for
having evidently given you a terrible fright
into the bargain."

He spoke in his usual soft, suave voice ;
and, if there was any expression at all in his
cold eyes, it was one of amusement at her
astonishment and at the housekeeper's terror
rather than anything more threatening,

I don't understand you, Doctor Ledbury.
If this is a practical joke to show your power
in this household, it is an act of bad taste so
unheard of that it would be useless to waste
indignation upon a man who could be guilty
of it." Then, as she glanced again at the
housekeeper, her tone changed to one more
authoritative. '' You see that your presence
is causing this poor woman great distress. If
you really have nothing to say, I must beg you
to retire."

*' One moment, if you please," said he as
gently as before. 'you have done me great
injustice, Mrs. Morrison, since the very moment
when I first had the honour of being introduced
to you. The knowledge of this and a certain
suggestion you made to me this evening which
implied a terrible accusation, perhaps unconsciously
to yourself, have made me very anxious
to clear myself in your eyes. I am sorry that

I had no choice but to take means which have
proved rather alarming to you."

'' Then you have something to say to me ? "

It would be of no use. Your prejudice
against me is formed, and you would not
believe me."

*' I must believe you. Why do you not
speak ? I know you are not Doctor Ledbury.
Who are you ? "

*' If you should learn who I am, will you
give me your word you will keep the secret
until I release you by divulging it myself ? "

She hesitated.

'* I don't think I can bind myself to that."

*' I only ask you to keep the secret for a
month. The safety of the man you and I care
most for In the world depends upon it."

'' My husband's ? " asked Geraldine, coldly.

No, not your husband's, your brother's,"
said he, with somewhat insulting emphasis.

Sir James Otway's ? "

Yes, Sir James Otway's."

Will you swear that his safety depends
upon my keeping the secret ? "

'' I swear that Sir James Otway's safety

depends upon your keeping the secret you are
about to learn."

Something In his hard earnestness as he
pronounced these words Inclined her, almost
for the first time, to believe him.

I promise," she began timidly.

'swear!"

'' I swear not to divulge your secret until
you release me, unless a month passes without
your doing so."

She heard a moan from the bed, and,
turning, saw the housekeeper's sunken eyes
fixed upon her piteously. Geraldlne shuddered,
but her word was given. The secret, true or
false, she must hear at all risks ; though, now
that she had given the pledge, an unaccountable
Impulse made her wish to delay the offered
announcement. She seemed to feel, by the
satisfaction with which this man listened to her
oath, that by this secret he would assume some
fresh power over her ; she put out her hand
to stop him as he advanced towards her, and
said, In a voice which she with difficulty kept
steady 

'' You will tell me the truth ? "

I will tell you nothing ; as I said before
you would not believe me. You want to know
who I am ; ask  her."

He pointed towards the bed, where the
poor old housekeeper made a weak attempt to
evade the part of the conversation allotted to
her by closing her eyes, as if asleep, a subterfuge
which the quivering muscles of her yellow,
wrinkled face at once betrayed. Geraldine
crept slowly up to the bedside, glancing from
the one to the other of this strange pair of
confederates without an inkling of the secret
she was going to learn, but filled with anticipatory
dread of it. At last she touched the
left hand of the housekeeper, which was clutching
the bed-clothes convulsively.

'' Tell me, Mrs. Symes," she whispered,
when Doctor Ledbury interrupted.

*mrs. Symes," said he softly, 'you had
better tell Mrs. Morrison, first of all, when and
where it was that you heard what you are
ofoino: to tell her."

She opened her unwilling eyes and looked
up at her mistress.

"When and where ? Yes, to be sure," she

croaked in her harsh and broken voice, In a
wandering and uncertain manner. Then she
seemed to collect her thoughts and quavered
out  " Ah, dear me, dear me, yes, It was herein
this house I heard It, eight months ago
come Christmas, when my poor old master,
Sir Charles, lay dying ! "

Geraldine stopped her, starting up from the
half-kneeling position by the bedside Into which
she had fallen in order to catch the broken
words. He calmly signed to her to resume
her place ; but the old woman, thus interrupted,
said nothing more aloud, but continued to
mutter and murmur a mixture of prayer and
narrative below her breath.

'' Ask her who I am," said Doctor Ledbury,
who had made his way noiselessly round to the
other side of the bed, and was watching the
withered face, whose eyes were again closed,
attentively and somewhat apprehensively.

Who  Is  this  gentleman ? " asked Geraldine,
slowly.

Before an answer could escape from the old
woman's lips, the subject of the question withdrew
himself so closely to the wall at the head

of the bed as to be unseen by Its occupant,
while he lifted a warning hand towards the
lady, as If to prepare her for a shock. Mrs.
Symes shook her head, opened her eyes, and,
on a repetition of the question, she quavered
out slowly but distinctly to the attentive ears
that listened just half a dozen words. And
a strong mans hand laid sharply on her
shoulder told her that was enough.

Geraldlne had been prepared by LIndley
Fielding's mystifying revelations, by months of
suspense  of sorrow, by all the strange events
since her discovery of James, by Doctor Led-bury's
presence, by his threats, by his hints,
and, lastly, by the warning he had just given
her  to receive some communication astonishing
and perhaps terrible. Yet, In spite of all
this, the words were no sooner out of the
housekeeper's mouth than she started up from
her knees with a wild and shrill cry, which
rang through the house and startled her two
companions. Doctor Ledbury hurried to the
door and unlocked It.

I warned you ; I told you to be careful,
to be on your guard," he cried impatiently*'

Compose yourself, for Heaven's sake, and
have something to say in case anybody
comes."

But Geraldine stood before him as heedless
as a madwoman, staring at him incredulously,
panting and struggling with herself.

It is not true," she gasped hoarsely. But
even as she spoke, with her eyes fixed upon
him, she was convinced against her will ; and,
turning away, overcome with a torrent of feelings
impossible to analyze, she sank on to a
chair with dry eyes and a burning brain, while
the old housekeeper watched her, still moaning,
and the pseudo-doctor listened at the
door.

Your husband is coming," he said quickly.
'' Can you see him yet ? "

Yes, oh, yes ! " she answered, rising unsteadily,
but with obedient alacrity which
reassured him as to the course she would
pursue.

However, he stepped forward towards her
and whispered 

"You will not forget that you have sworn?"

"No, I won't forget." But she seemed

confused, as if too bewildered to understand
fully either his questions or her own answers.

"And what are you going to say to him ? "

Say to him ? " she echoed stupidly, putting
her head down to meet her hands. " I don't
know, I must think about it. And you  you

have more to tell me, or " And she

glanced at Mrs. Symes.

*' No," answered he hastily; "she has told
you all she knows. But you are evidently
hysterical ; that will be a reason for my seeing
you again to-night ; then I will tell you all you
want to know  and all about James," he had
just time to whisper in a confidential tone, when
Captain Morrison's sharp tap was heard at the
door. " Go ! " said he, glancing at the door,
and murmuring into her ear an explanation of
the scream which had brought her husband
upstairs.

Deceiving her husband in little things was
now, unhappily, old practice with Geraldine ;.
and she opened the door as if ashamed of
herself, but with a smile.

Was that you I heard screaming ? " he
asked anxiously. " What is the matter ? "

Nothing. Mrs. Symes frightened me,
that is all ; I thought she was going to die,
she looks dreadfully ill."

The housekeeper's ghastly and weird
appearance, as her master put his head in at
the door and immediately withdrew it, fully
bore out this explanation.

'rit is not a good thing, though, to scream
like that at the bedside of a dying old woman,"
he muttered. '' You might have sent her off
altogether. What did she want to say to you?"

'' Oh, nothing very important, of course !
ril tell you all about it tomorrow."

"You look worn out."

I am. Doctor Ledbury says he must
prescribe for me," she added, turning towards
the interior of the room.

Mrs. Morrison is in a highly nervous
state," said Doctor Ledbury, coming forward
If she is not calmer before retiring to rest,.
I must ask you. Captain Morrison, to prevail
upon her to take a. sleeping-draught."

No, no," she cried with sudden agitation,
which supported well the statement that she
was nervous. The truth was that her confidence

in the efficacy of the pseudo-doctor's
drugs was only too strong.

Her husband looked at her with much
anxiety. Doctor Ledbury continued in a
measured tone, whose significance was strong
to her only 

'' I must beg you, Mrs. Morrison, to send
your maid to me when you are ready to retire
to rest ; and I shall then be able to decide
whether you ought to take a sleeping-draught
or no. You have worked yourself up into a
state of agitation which, if not calmed down
either by natural or artificial means, would be
fever before morning."

She submitted with docility which surprised
her husband, and made him glance from the
one to the other with ever-alert suspicion. But
both were perfectly guarded, both seemed
perfectly at ease. Captain Morrison, after
allowing his wife to summon Martha to resume
her place in the sick-room, during which quest
she curiously enough insisted on his remaining
with the doctor, led her downstairs to her own
room, where Aurelie, tired of waiting, had fallen
asleep in a chair.

You seem to have got over your suspicion
of the doctor' he observed, looking at her
rather curiously as he stood at the door before
bidding her brood niofht.

As her back was turned to the liorht in
the room, he could not see the red flush
that overspread her pale, tired face at this
speech.

'' Yes, and I am ashamed of them," she
answered, in a faltering voice. '' I have made a
sort of apology for my coldness, and he has
forgiven me very magnanimously. I must now
make an apology to you for the intrusion which
offended you so much "

"No, no ; I was not offended," he interrupted
hastily. "You took me rather by
surprise, you know, and  and I wasn't in a very
good temper perhaps. But  but come again,
and ril treat you better ; I'd rather you should
come to  to  to give it me hot than that you
shouldn't come at all. Good nicrht ! "

'* Good night ! " she replied, giving him her
hand.

*well, aren't you going to offer to kiss
me ? " he asked impatiently.

'what  after the snub you gave me this
evening about my cold cheek ? "

'' I'll warm it," said he ; and he flung his
arms about her and held her against his breast
with such yearning tenderness that she felt
guilty and conscience-stricken, and could not
meet the passionate gaze of his eyes as he lifted
her white face with one loving hand towards
his. " Look here ! " he whispered humbly, 'i'll
be on my guard against Ledbury ; and, if there's
anything wrong about him "

But there isn't," she exclaimed eagerly,
starting up and laying her right hand emphatically
on his shoulder. " Haven't I just told you
I've had to confess my mistake and even apologize
? You are not to take any notice of what
I said  at least, please don't," she added, seeing
that, after the manner of over-indulged women,
she had become unduly peremptory.

Very well," he agreed, not quite satisfied
concerning the sudden change of feeling, but
still docile. Then he drew her once more
towards him, and said, in a low voice In her ear,
"See how it ends  how it always ends when
you make me ever so angry ! It is I who give

way, who come suing to you for the forgiveness
and kindness which you, who deceive me and
don't care for me, ought to beg me for. I shall
go back to my room to-night, thinking, while
the first glow of the pleasure of having held you
in my arms lasts, that I have come a step nearer
to you and the love I want you to give me.
And then I shall remember this "  and he tossed
up her right hand which now hung quite limply
down by her side  " and this "  and he put his
hand over her calmly beating heart  " and the
passive way in which your lips received the
touch of mine. And I shall curse you for a
statue and myself for an ass, and be no better
off than I was before. And you will deceive
me again, and I shall make you hate me again ;
and we shall have another of these paltry reconciliations
which lead to nothing ; and so on and
on, I suppose, until the little brain my love has
left me gives way, and you can shut me up fora
lunatic and enjoy yourself."

He relaxed his hold upon her slightly, that
he might look, half plaintively, half defiantly,
into her face. But she did not remain limp and
passive now ; she sank down trembling on to

her knees at his feet, with the tears glistening
her eyes.

"Oh, PhiHp, I am sorry ! I am so wretched
that I can't begin to love anybody yet ; but I
will try as soon as I am ha  ha  happier ! " she
sobbed, in a whisper.

While he was yet raising her from the
ground, the unmistakable measured footsteps of
Doctor Ledbury were heard along the corridor
at the very end of which, having withdrawn
themselves from the doorway of the room in
which the maid awaited' her mistress, husband
and wife were standing. The words she was
speaking froze on Geraldine's lips ; she started
up, and, hastily bidding her husband good night,
hurried into her room, while Captain Morrison
went slowly back to his own. A few moments
later Aurelie hastened to meet the doctor, and
to tell him that madame was ready to receive
monsieur.

Doctor Ledbury found Mrs. Morrison in her
boudoir, a large, bright apartment which had
once been the schoolroom. Aurelie remained
with her mistress while the doctor felt the pulse
of the latter, and asked her a few formal questions

; then he sent the maid downstairs to the
Library in search of a little case which he said
she would find on the centre table.

As soon as she had left the room, Geraldine,
who had been prepared with her question, said
quickly 

*' If what you have told me is true, why do
you hide yourself under a false name ? "

For the sake of the only man I care for in
the world  James Otway."

She started.

'' You have shown your affection in a very
singular manner."

" I have shown it by watching over him
during the past three months, by twice saving
his life during that time from attacks made
through the meanest of channels  a bribed
domestic  by the speed with which I hurried
down here, knowing the dangers which surrounded
him if he had strayed into the
neighbourhood of the woman whom he loved
and the man who hated him, and by that
greatest proof which I have already given
you."

Geraldine sprang up in great agitation,

VOL, III. 51

looked at him keenly, and moved restlessly
about, not knowing what to think or to
believe.

You say his life was twice attacked. How ?
By whom ? " she asked, at last.

By poison, through a woman introduced as
cook into the house where he was lodging."

'' Introduced by whom ? "

He hesitated. She repeated the question.

By the only man I know of who wishes
James harm."

Therefore  Lindley Fielding ? " said she,
with trembling voice.

Lindley Fielding forgot his grudge against
James the moment he heard his life was in
danger."

Geraldine remembered Lindley's evident
anxiety about James when she saw him at
Chiswick ; and this confirmation of one part of
Doctor Ledbury's statement alarmed her still
more.

Then whom do you mean ? "

' You know," he whispered significantly.

'' It is impossible ! " she burst out. '' Captain
Morrison  my husband  is passionate and revengeful

; but he is not a coward. He would
not use such means."

"He will use any means to satisfy his passions
; he gives himself up to whichever attacks
him, and is as violent and unreasonable In his
Hatred as he is in his love."

Doctor Ledbury glanced at her as If he
thought this last suggestion a powerful one.
But a vague feeling that her husband's wish to
have his affection for her returned was not
altogether so unreasonable as it had once
appeared to her had crept into her heart during
the passionate appeal he had made to her that
night, so that no answering flash of indignation
followed the doctor's words. He tried another
tack.

'' Well, you will be able to judge when he
comes face to face with James Otway, as he is
determined to do."

Geraldine's composure gave way, and she
began to fidget and to tremble. He saw his
advantage, and was on the point of following It
up, when she stopped him as he was about to
speak.

You have told me enough, thank you. It

is not necessary to try to irritate me further
against my husband in order to induce me to
keep my oath. I shall do that in any case, and
whatever your motive for secrecy may be."

'' I have told you  my affection for

J))
ames

Ah, yes, I remember ! So you did," she
said, very slowly raising her eyes to his face
with straightforward incredulity  " so you
did!"

She pointed to the door to restrain a
protest, for her ears had caught the sound of
Aurelie's light footsteps, rendered even lighter
than usual by a very natural wish to learn what
sort of a tete-astute was going on between her
mistress and the visitor for whom her dislike
was an open secret. Her errand had been
unsuccessful ; so Doctor Ledbury went to his
own room, found the case she had been sent
to look for, and returned with a sleeping-draught,
which Geraldine civilly declined to
take. Then, after giving her some grave
advice to compose herself and dismiss all
anxiety from her mind, which sounded quaintly
from the lips of one of the chief causes of

I

her distress, Doctor Ledbury retired, and
Geraldine returned to her own room.

AureHe at once locked the door with such
ostentatious haste as had the desired effect of
attracting her mistress's attention.

'' What is the matter, AureHe ? What are
you afraid of ? "

Rien, madame. Seulement, quand on sait
qu'il y a des brigands dans le voisinage "

But that was two days ago, AureHe.
The poor thief is far enough away by this
time," answered Geraldine, rather uneasy.

Ah, madame, ils sont matins, les voleurs !
Vous les croyez disarms a tout jamais ; et
puis tout d'un coup, vela qu'ils reviennent et
qu'on les voit roder autour de la maison, tout en
cherchant un trou quelconque par lequel "

'* Who has put these silly ideas into your
head ? You may be quite sure that the thief,
when he is well enough to steal again, won't
try at Waringham."

But there were symptoms of intelligence
and of malice too under all the girl's affectation
of terror, which made her mistress's real alarm
difficult to hide.

Cependant, madame," said the maid more
seriously, '' Davis, le jeune garde-chasse, Fa
vu aujourd'hui pres de la metairie ; et quand
je lui ai fait des reproches de ne pas Savoir
arrete, il m'a dit "

"Well, what?"

II m'a dit  que j en savais deja plus long
que lui. Je lui ai rendu qu'il e'en etait rien,.
et puis  et puis c'est tout, madame."

And, with that ultra-innocence that none
but a Parisian woman can assume, Aurelie
proceeded with her duties, leaving her mistress
discreetly warned that the mysterious thief was
still in the neighbourhood, and that the secret,
if not of his identity, at least of her own
interest in him, had transpired.

Next morning it was easy to see that whatever
prescription Doctor Ledbury had made
up for insuring his hostess's rest, had failed
lamentably of its effect; her worn, wan face,
heavy eyes, and nervous manner testified to
the night of wearing, sleepless anxiety she
had passed. Daylight seemed, as usual, to
have cooled Captain Morrison's passion ; and
Geraldine, without daring to interfere, saw him

I

I

leave the breakfast room with Doctor Ledbury,
and presently watched them from the windows
as they strolled through the park together.
Their walk was, however, so leisurely that
she had reason to hope that the rumour of
James's having been again seen in the neighbourhood
had failed to reach their ears ; and,
as at last they sauntered out of sight, she
turned quickly from the window, left the room,
and ran up to the top of the house, bent on
discovering vvhat that piece of information was
that Mrs. Symes had evidently been prevented
by the doctor from adding to the one startling
disclosure she had made. She knocked
at the housekeeper's door, full of excitement,
and, as the old voice quavered out " Come in ! "
she entered with the important question she
wished to ask trembling on her lips.

She did not utter it ; for, sitting upright,
stiff and Medusa-like by the side of the bed,
was Miss Elizabeth, evidently on guard and
in the service of the enemy. Geraldine, to
whom this sight was confirmation of the truth
of the disclosure which had been made to her,
was struck with consternation and disappointment

so evident as to call up to the elder
lady's thin lips a very disagreeable smile.
Her visit was not quite in vain, however, for
it was clear that the mere sight of her face
was a relief to the poor old housekeeper, in
whom the common hatred of all the household
to Miss Elizabeth had become the very
strongest feeling save one of which her
lymphatic nature was capable. As her young
mistress bent over her, looking kindly into
the faded eyes, she formed with her lips
rather than uttered the words  " Don't trust
him." And, with a responsive and reassuring
pressure of the thin old hand, Mrs. Morrison,
after inquiries as to her night's rest, left her
under her grim guard.

It was not until after luncheon that
Geraldine got the opportunity she wished for
of speaking again to her husband alone ; for
it was evident that Doctor Ledbury had small
trust in her promise to keep his secret. However,
before they left the table, he expressed
a wish to see how the housekeeper was, and
went upstairs with Miss Elizabeth  another
eloquent circumstance  and as Eleanor had of

late fallen into the habit of taking an hour's
undisturbed rest in the afternoon on the sofa
in the morning-room, Geraldine was able to
lead her husband off to the drawing-room unmolested.
Again the doctor had been at work
between them, she felt sure ; and when she had
led him in a coaxing manner to his favourite
armchair, and had felt in his pockets with her
own hand for his cigar-case, he raised his eyes
to hers in his old defiant, mistrustful manner,
and the expression in them distinctly asked 
What do you want to get out of me now ? "

This eloquent gaze was so long and so
steady that her fingers trembled and she
asked falteringly 

"Why do you look at me so, if  if you
meant all you said last night ? "

** I would not look at you * so ' if I could
believe you meant all that your actions imply
now." But his manner was not hard, nor was
his voice harsh ; and she slid down on her
knees on to a footstool beside him.

Look here ! " said she. *' Don't frighten
me directly I try to please you, or I simply
can't go on "

But he interrupted her by laying his hand
on her shoulder, while his dark, sensitive face
showed the struggle within him.

Your hatred was sincere  I knew what I
had to deal with ; but this  I don't understand
yet, and  and  I must hold out, for I'm only
too ready to yield to you."

But he had yielded, his hand was trembling
her shoulder ; his plaintive eyes were drawn
in spite of himself to the face which had such
fascination for him. Her abhorrence of him had
gradually weakened before his kindness, until
his appeal on the preceding night had opened
her eyes somewhat suddenly to the full extent
or what she considered the full extent 
of her errors of conduct and judgment with
regard to him ; and now that her horror of him
had disappeared, she learnt at once how easy it
was to turn his black looks into the gaze of
passionate fondness which had formerly been-even
more repugnant to her. Her eyes fell
before his ; but she did not shrink from the
touch of his hand ; she put her own fingers
lightly upon his, and bent a little towards him.

'' Geraldine, why are you so kind ? What

do you want ? What do you mean ? You are
not tricking me again, are you ? "

No, no, no ; indeed I am not ! " she assured
him, meeting his look with eyes as full of
passion as his own. I will never deceive you
again  I should have done better to trust you
at first  I am going to trust you now."

His face darkened suddenly with suspicion.

Well ? " said he shortly.

Don't look so angry. Oh, if you knew
how hard it is to speak ! But I have no one to
help me, no one to advise me ; and I thought
after last night  I would make a bold stroke,
and  and  put my head into the lion's mouth,
and risk it, and  and  tell you, and trust to
your generosity. But if you look like that, I
may as well give it up, for it would certainly be
of no use."

*' Try me," said he, in a low voice, certainly
not without apprehension as to what sort of
confession his not very tractable wife might
have to make.

'james Otway is in the neighbourhood
still."

He snatched his hand from her shoulder,

but controlled himself by a strong effort as she

shrank back, and asked hoarsely 

When did you see him  and where ? "
*' I have not seen him, I swear it. I learnt

that he was about here from one of the servants.

I resolved to tell you, and to throw myself on

the mercy you offered me."

'' Yourself."

Yes. For my sake, I implore you not
only to give up your revenge, but to find him
out and to save him ; for I believe he has much
more dangerous enemies than you. Lindley
Fielding hates him," she added hastily, meeting
his penetrating look ; " and you have heard how
unscrupulous this Cousin Lindley is."

"And you have the audacity to ask me todo
this ? Me, your husband, who have been
vainly humiliating myself to beg for the affection
you lavish upon this worthless, selfish scamp,
who betrayed my sister, and put your own
reputation in danger. It is unheard of  preposterous
! "

He would have risen in his indignation, but
she clung to him and would not let him go.

'* Should I dare to be so bold, if there was

anything to be ashamed of in my King for
him ? "

Very likely. Women can do anything in
the cause of a bad man."

'' Oh, Philip, he is not a bad man ! I don't
believe it was he who "

Suddenly she stopped short, the colour
excitement had called up faded from her face,
her form grew rigid, her very breathing seemed
to be arrested ; and all without one word from
him to bring about this transformation. His
first impulse was to throw his arms round her,
alarmed, thinking she was ill ; but the next
moment he saw that the change in her was
the result of some disquieting thought, and he
sprang up, shaking himself free from her, and
began marching down the room. Paralyzed by
the idea which had entered her mind, she had
sunk down upon the footstool, and she did not
attempt to interrupt the angry words he muttered
as he strolled away.

'' A wretched, skulking, sneaking fellow,
who will hang about a house, ready to crawl in
and whine at the feet of a foolish woman whenever
he may get an opportunity while the husband

is away ! Does that look like innocence ?
Is that the action of an honest man ? " he cried,
wheeling round suddenly where he stood at
the other end of the room, and addressing his
wife in a voice shaking with passion. She did
not answer ; indeed she could not answer this ;
and, bursting into tears, she laid her head upon
the nearest chair and sobbed.

In the agitation of this interview neither
husband nor wife had heard the ring of the
entrance-bell, or footsteps in the hall. But at
this moment both were started by the opening
of the door; and the butler, seeing only his
master, who stood opposite to the door, since
the partition between the two drawing-rooms
hid his mistress from sight, announced, in a
voice he could scarcely keep steady 

'* Sir James Otway ! "

Captain Morrison made a step back, as if he
had been struck. Geraldine, her head going
round, her hands trembling so much that they
would scarcely serve her, staggered to her feet,
and, after a moment's hesitation, advanced
timidly to meet him.

CHAPTER VIII.

As James walked the length of the room
towards her, Geraldine was struck, in spite of
the agitation from which she was suffering, by
the great change which less than three days
had made in him. He was still pale, he had
not yet recovered the firm, easy tread of a young
man in perfect health ; but he was self-possessed
and unconstrained, and he approached her with
an unreserved warmth and eagerness which
gave strong support to the pleadings she had
just urged to her husband on his behalf.

'' You didn't expect to see me back so soon,
did you ? " he asked, as he shook hands with
her.

No ; I am very, very glad to see you. I
must introduce you to my husband. I  I don't
think you have met him before."

'' No, I have not had that pleasure," replied
James, quite easily, turning as Captain Morrison
came slowly from the end of the
room.

Philip, you have heard a great deal about
the bold bandit of seven years old who kidnapped
me and brought me to Waringham.
Let me introduce you to my adopted brother,
Sir James Otway."

I am very happy to make Sir James
Otway's acquaintance," said Captain Morrison,
stiffly, without noticing the hand James instinctively
held out to Deldee's husband.

*' Ill-tempered, jealous little beggar!" thought
James ; and his face almost expressed this comment
as he turned towards Geraldine.

Do you know what I have done to inspire
poor old Johnson with so much horror, Deldee ?"
asked he, as he sat down. " If I had been the
ghost of Guy Fawkes in sticking-plaster boots,
with an extra box or two of matches, he couldn't
have opened his eyes wider when he saw me,
or been more astonished when I expressed my
intention of coming in."

She laughed uneasily.

He is getting old, you know," she began,
and stopped.

Perhaps, after Thursday night, he begins
to think the back-door or a kitchen window the
proper entrance for me," continued James, turning
towards his sulky and silent host, who stood
with ramrod stiffness by the table, as if unwilling
to be drawn into the conversation. '' I
certainly did not make a very dignified first
appearance here during your occupation of the
Hall, Captain Morrison. But you must have
learnt all the circumstances ; and I am sure you
understand that, if I had been in my right
senses, I should have presented myself in a
more orthodox manner. I have lost no time
in coming to apologize for the disturbance I
caused, owing to Johnson's insisting on passing
me off as a burglar."

Perhaps your mysterious manner of leaving
the house influenced him, Sir James, even more
than your coming. You were in your right
senses then, I believe ? "

'* I am not sure that I was," said James,
gravely, while his face flushed at the dry, arrogant
tone in which the question was asked.
VOL. III. 52

Of course you have a right to be surprised
at my conduct, which was nothing less than
insane. I can only explain it by assuring you
that I have been ill lately, and have suffered
with my head, and that yesterday was the first
day for three months on which my thoughts
have been perfectly clear."

Geraldine started ; an exclamation burst
from her lips, but, as both gentlemen turned
towards her, she recovered herself, and said
nothing.

'' I am delighted to hear of your recovery,"
said Captain Morrison, in the same tone as
before.

James again grew red, and said quietly 

"If you knew me better, Captain Morrison,
I hope you would not doubt my word. It is a
painful enough position to have to apologize
when sane for actions committed when I was
not responsible for them. Perhaps you have
a right to doubt the word of a man in such a
position  I don't know. But I can send you
a medical certificate in support of my words as
soon as I get back to town."

Whose ? James, where are you going ? "

burst out Geraldlne, unable to control herself.


To the doctor whose care I have been
under," said he, his voice growing gentle as
soon as he spoke to her. " He is a cousin and
namesake of the celebrated physician Doctor
Ledbury, and he attended my uncle on his
death-bed."

There is no need for you to go to town
for support of your words, Sir James," said
Captain Morrison, as drily as ever. Then he
paused for a moment, to give full effect to the
following words  'your friend Doctor Led-bury
is in this house."

Here ! " cried James, half-starting from
his seat with unmistakable pleasure. '' Then
you will not long be in doubt about the truth
of what I have told you."

I am not in doubt now, I assure yoa
Your friend Doctor Ledbury has satisfied me
on many points."

James looked puzzled as well as angry,
Geraldine sat forward on her chair, putting
her own construction on each word that fell
from either, and so much excited by the hopes

and fears they roused in her that, as at that
moment the door was heard to open, she
glanced up with no other feeling than annoyance
at the interruption. But when she saw
that the intruder was Doctor Ledbury, and
noted the effect the unexpected sight of James
had upon him, her annoyance was swallowed
up in the intensity of her interest, and involuntarily
she rose to her feet at the moment that
James sprang up to meet his friend, while the
doctor's stolid, fresh-coloured face grew suddenly
livid, and he stopped short, with a sort
of extinction of all expression which Geraldine
interpreted as the result of consternation. Then
she glanced at her husband ; but the look of
savage sullenness which his face had worn since
James's entrance had not changed, and she
could only conclude that the true significance of
the meeting had escaped him. For, after the
first shock of surprise. Doctor Ledbury came
forward with eagerness, feigned well enough to
deceive James, in whose greeting Geraldine fancied
she could detect anxiety to be reassured
as to the loyalty of the friend against whom
she had conceived such preposterous suspicions.

How did you come here ? " asked James,
after the first greetings.

I came In search of you. Where have
you been hiding for the last two days ? "

I have been staying at a farmhouse near
here. You remember old Corbyn and his wife,
Deldee ? "

And are you staying there ? " she asked
quickly. " Why didn't you let us know ? "

** Mr. Crosse wanted me to keep quiet
for a day or two." Doctor Ledbury turned
sharply in spite of himself at these words.
The old gentleman has been awfully good tome,
and has been with me constantly, asking
me all sorts of questions, until I think he must
have materials for my biography. But he has
been so kind that I couldn't make any objection,
so by his orders I have been a close
prisoner, subject to strict interrogatories, until
to-day."

Doctor Ledbury laughed uneasily ; and, as
James rose to take leave, he started up quickly
at the same time.

I must walk back with you and see what
sort of diggings you have," said he, "and hear

all about the mysterious manner in which you
landed at Waringham."

But at the moment that he was following
James to the door, Captain Morrison stopped
him to say in a low voice 

I have to go to town by the 4.30 train,
Doctor Ledbury. I hope you will excuse my
absence for a few hours. I shall be back as
early as I can tomorrow." His tone was so
very grave that it was evident that the business
which called him away was urgent ; his manner
affected the doctor, who answered hastily 

Then I am afraid I shall not have the
pleasure of seeing you again. For, now that
my truant patient has turned up, I must get
back to town myself as fast as I can."

Well, do just as you please. The house is
at your disposal, and the ladies will do their
best to entertain you as long as you care to
remain. But I still hope to find you here on
my return."

The words were courteous enough ; but
perhaps it was his still hot indignation against
Sir James Otway which caused Captain Morrison
to speak with less cordiality than he had yet

shown towards his guest. As soon as Doctor
Ledbury and his patient had left the house
together, the former Hnking his arm through
that of the latter in the most affectionate manner,
Captain Morrison returned to the drawing-room,
where he had left his wife. She started at his
entrance, and turned towards him a face pale and
quivering with the excitement of the past quarter
of an hour ; she looked at him pleadingly, but
did not speak. He was as grave as ever; but
there was nothing menacing to her in his sternness,
and she left the window where she had
been standing, and came, with rather hesitating
steps, towards him.

Well," said he, not ungently.
You are going away, Philip ? "
'* Yes, I am going away."
'' Why  why ? Where are you going ? "
Let me ask you a question first. Do you
believe now that Sir James Otway  this man
you call your brother  is not the man who
betrayed my sister ? "

Oh, yes, I am sure of it ! Do you think
he would have dared to come here to-day to
face you. If "

Then you really believe that to arrive at
the truth would be to arrive at proof of his
innocence?" said he, interrupting her passionate
question.

"Yes."

Of course you would be delighted then to
help me to discover the whole truth ? "

Yes," said she, with surprise and some
hesitation.

Then give me my sister's address. You
have it, I know."

The quiet peremptoriness of this command
cowed Geraldine. But, instead of accepting the
challenge with delight, she trembled, and her
eyes fell, and she stood before him mute and
inert as if the order had been a death-warrant.

"Well, is your faith in your brother no
stronger than that ? "

He is innocent, I am sure of it ! " she
faltered, in a stifled voice.

"You don't seem very eager to have it
proved."

Without answering, she sat down and burst
into tears. The next moment her husband's
hand was caressing her, and his voice, hoarse

and rather unsteady, spoke close to her
ear 

Don't cry, child. You know I won't do
anything to wound you. Haven't you any faith
in me yet ? "

Then don't ask me for the address ; I  I
can't give it you."

But I must have it, my darling. You
must give it me and trust me. If I have suspected
your brother wrongfully, I promise to
spare no pains to try to clear him of the other
charge, of which you say he is innocent. Can I
do more than this ? "

'' Oh, Philip, don't ask me for it! You don't
know what you are making me suffer."

His arm trembled as it rested upon her
shoulders ; but he repeated, in a low voice 

'T must have the address."

Then there was a silence for a few minutes,
during which she hung her head and cried, and
he stood over her quietly waiting. At last she
raised her head and, saying brokenly 

'' She lives at Enfield. That is all I know,"
she shook herself free from his arm, sprang up,
and fled away to her own room.

When she came down to dinner, her husband
had left the house.

There was an uncomfortable feeling of constraint
over the party at the Hall that evening,
each member of it putting a different meaning
upon the mysterious errand which had called the
master of the house away so abruptly. Geraldine
tried very hard to seem at ease, and during dinner
she succeeded in infusing some sort of animation
into the rest. But when, later, they were all
in the drawing-room, and Doctor Ledbury was
engaged in conversation with Miss Elizabeth,
she grew restless and almost hysterical, and
could scarcely keep the tears from her eyes.
Borrowing one of Miss Eleanor's shawls, therefore,
she opened one of the French windows of
the smaller drawing-room, and went out, saying
that she must go and see how some new orchids
were getting on which had arrived that day.
She glanced at Doctor Ledbury as she went
out, with an Intimation that he might follow her
as soon as he pleased. She had something
important to say to him ; and, when she reached
the conservatory where, among the blended
beauties and sweet scents of her favourite

flowers, she soon recovered more serenity, she
threw herself into an American chair in the
carpeted corner under the soft light of the
Chinese lanterns, and glanced anxiously through
the steaming panes for the dark figure she
dreaded, yet perforce was eager to see.

In a few minutes she was satisfied; for
against a space of the night-sky between the
trees of the park she saw what looked like
a slowly moving shadow making its way
towards the end of the conservatory, and she
waited with fast-beating heart for the doctor's
entrance. But the minutes passed on, the
shadow had disappeared, and still Doctor
Ledbury did not come in ; she rose, went
quickly towards the door, and, as she did so,
the dark shadow which was all she could
distinguish through the steaming glass moved
away from the end of the conservatory in the
direction of the corner of the house.

Why doesn't he come in ? What can hebe
afraid of ? " thought she ; and, with an
impatient hand already upon the door-handle,
she was on the point of calling to him, when
a suspicion that it might be her husband or

some one set to watch her on his behalf
arrested her for a moment and spurred her
the next instant to run out Into the garden
after the retreating man. But as soon as there
was no damp glass between them to give
Indistinctness to the outline of his figure she
was reassured, and, following him quickly ashe
still retreated before her, she called softly 

*' Doctor Ledbury, Doctor Ledbury, I want
to speak to you  I must speak to you ! "

Still he paid no attention to her, and
seemed bent upon escaping Into the trees
which grew thickly up to the borders of the
garden on the east side of the house.

Doctor, you are In danger ; my husband
suspects you ! " she hissed out ; and at these
words the escaping figure stopped short and
slowly turned.

Her object gained, Geraldine stopped also,
and sank for a moment, panting more from
emotion than fatigue, upon a garden-seat. As
she heard his footsteps returning to her side,
she said In a whisper 

Why did you give me this chase ? Come
back to the conservatory. Do you want to

set all the servants talking ? "  and, rising
without turning to look at him, she led the
way back. But she heard no footsteps following
her, and, turning Impatiently, she saw
that he was standing still by the seat.

Why don't you come ? " she asked
feverishly ; then, as he did not answer, she
came back with her eyes fixed apprehensively
upon him in the gloom, until she was
almost near enough to have touched him, when
she suddenly staggered back, with a sharply
drawn breath, whispering '' James ! "

As the words left her lips she felt his
arm supporting her, and trembled at his touch
with a thrill of excitement she did not understand.


*' James," she repeated  'james, I did not
know youI took you for Doctor Ledbury 
your figure in the dark looked so like him.
It is you. Isn't it ? " she continued, as he still
did not speak.

And looking up, she saw that his face was
not the gentle, kind face of the brother and
playfellow she had tyrannized over, nor did
it bear the dull, dazed expression which had

seemed so pitiful to her when she saw him
at Chiswick, and while he was confined to the
room in the west wing ; but he looked like
a man roused suddenly out of a deep sleep
to find himself standing on the brink of an
abyss. She uttered a faint cry, like a sob,
and tried to free herself from him ; but he
would not let her go. He looked down at
her without losing the strange expression of
fear, bewilderment, and resolution which
seemed stamped upon his features, and said,
in the deep voice which always grew sweet
when it addressed her 

'' Don't be afraid of me,, Deldee. I must
speak to you, child ; I must know what you
meant by those words you intended for the
doctor."

But, for answer, she made another effort
to get away from him ; and, feeling that the
hand with which she tried to remove his from
her arm was icily cold, he led her back to the
conservatory and stepped inside with her.

*' Now, Deldee, tell me what you meant,'
said he, letting her arm go and looking down
at her steadily.

She put her hands up to her head and
remained silent for a moment, with her eyes
on the ground and a look of hopeless bewilderment
and uncertainty on her face. He came
nearer to her, and put out one hand as if to
touch her shoulder ; but he drew it back again
and only whispered, bending his head to see
her face 

Tell me, Deldee."

She drew herself up and returned the gaze
of his inquiring eyes with a look so imploring,
so full of fiery despair, that his resolution
melted as he met it, and her first words were
uttered as he was springing forward to comfort
her. She shrank back, frightened, and stepped
him by a gesture as she spoke 

'' Don't ask me  don't ask me ! I am so
puzzled and bewildered and miserable that I
don't know what I say or why I say it. I am
hedged in by horrible fears, and I speak
without thinking just what they dictate to me.
I have been teased and tortured and put on
the rack to answer questions and to evade
them, until I seem to have no sense left to
understand what I say. I have had to answer,

with my will or against It, at my husband's
command. Must I suffer the same torture
at yours ? "

No, no, Heaven forgive me, Deldee ; I
would rather lose my right hand than cause
you a moment's pain ! " said he, not daring
to advance or even to look at her, but speaking
in a low voice, every note of which thrilled her
as she listened to him.

Then neither spoke for a few moments.
He remained standing on the same spot, as
if under some spell too strong for him to break,
while she tried to regain her composure and
to decide what she might safely tell him of
a secret which was growing too heavy for her
to bear alone. She turned to the flowers and
touched the blossoms near her with fingers
which felt nothing, and bent over them
mechanically, with no sense of their fragrance.
Under the excitement of James's presence,
thought came quickly, but, when she turned
suddenly towards him, she met his eyes
fastened upon her with a burning light in
them, which instantly recalled to her mind
the wild words of fondness which he had

written about her in the pocket-book put into
her husband's hands by Doctor Ledbury. The
words she had upon her Hps were forgotten,
her own gaze fell, and, without a sound, she
turned towards the dining-room door, trying
to recover her serenity that she might dismiss
him calmly.

She had not gone three steps before he
came to her side, and holding out his hand,
said gently, without that passionate tremor in
his voice which destroyed her self-possession 

*you will forgive me for disturbing you,
Deldee. It wasn't quite my fault, you know,
was it ? You will say good night, won't you ? "

Good night," she faltered, giving him her
hand with a timidity and constraint which she
could not conquer and without looking up.

He retained her fingers in his grasp for a
few seconds, and then said softly 

Don't send me away like this, as if you
were angry with me. I've done nothing to
deserve it this time. I did not want to speak
to you to-night ; it was you who insisted on
stopping me, wasn't it ? Look up at me and
say frankly, ' Good night, James ! ' I haven't
VOL. III. 53

SO many friends that I can afford to think I
have offended one  and especially my  my
good fairy ! "

His voice shook a little on the last words ;
but when she obediently raised her eyes the
fiery gaze she could not meet was gone. It was
a kind, friendly face that was bent towards her
and reassured her ; but with her self-possession
came back the remembrance that she had a
warning to give him, and she repeated his last
words earnestly.

Your good fairy ! Yes, your good fairy
has something to tell you  something so terrible
that she does not know how to tell it. James,
you are innocent, are you not ? " she burst out
suddenly in a very low voice, but with the
earnestness of a vital question.

He started with a look of pain and reproach
which made her impulsively place her hands
caressingly on his arm.

'' I don't mean of the murder," she whispered
quickly, " but of  of  any other very wicked
thing."

'' I  I hope so," said he, rather confused.
What do you mean ? "

She hesitated, and then said in a whisper  

'' My husband suspects you  thinks you
have   Oh, James, you would never runaway
with another man's wife, would you ? "

But the question disconcerted him. He
drew himself up and began to play with his
moustache without at once answering; his
evident agitation shocked and alarmed her,
and, after waiting for him to speak, she caught
his hand and said piteously 

"James, James, why don't you answer? It
can't be true  I won't believe it is true. I did
doubt you once  I couldn't help it  everything
seemed so clearly against you ; but you would
never have come here and faced my husband
as you did to-day if you had done the wrong
he thinks, I am sure of it. Why don't you
speak out and tell me my trust is well-founded ?
Oh, James, you don't know how dear your
honour is to me ! "

Her fingers were twitching and trembling
round his, as her voice grew more plaintive,
more earnest, in proportion to his increasing
reluctance to look at and answer her. As the
last words fell from her lips, he tried to snatch

his fingers from her clasp ; but she ckmg imploringly
to him and whispered 

'' No, no ; you know I will forgive you
anything -only tell me, tell me ! I must know
the truth ; F have been in suspense so long."

Then he turned towards her at last ; but
it was with an expression which made her
shrink involuntarily back and try to withdraw
the hand which he now, in his turn, held fast.
The passion with which she had pleaded to-him
to confess to her seemed but a feeble little
oust beside the storm which shook his strong
and flashed from his eyes and cowed her
into timid silence as she listened.

** Why do you ask me, when you know
what my answer must be ? I cannot tell you
a lie  I have tried to avoid telling you the
truth  you ought to shrink from it too. You
are too severe  you treat a temptation conquered
as gravely as you would a temptation
yielded to ; if you were merciful  if you were
wise, you would ignore it altogether. I cannot
understand you to-night."

Then you didn't run away with her,
James?"

'with her? With whom?"

Captain Morrison thinks you wanted to
run away with his  his "

'* His wife ? Well, so I did, if you will
force me to confession."

'* Wife ! James, James, what are you
saying ? Mrs. Farquhar is his sister, not his
wife. I am his wife "

'' Yes ; and you are the only woman whose
unhappiness could move me as yours did today.
I could see another woman beaten 
kicked, with more composure than I felt to-day
when that sulky brute frowned at you. And
then, when I heard how you hate him, and
what a wretched life you lead through his
ill-temper and miserable jealousy, I couldn't
contain myself  I lost my head, and the mad
thought came to me that it would be better
for you to  to go anywhere with  some one
who worshipped you than stay here to be
crushed under the tyranny of a man you
despise. Don't turn away from me like that ;
you have no right to reproach me, since you
forced me to tell you this. The very first
glance at you through this glass, when I rushed

here to-night, hungry for a sight of you, made
me unspeakably ashamed of myself. I could
not see you clearly ; but in your white dress,
with your head drooping among the flowers,
you looked to me like an angel grieving for the
sins of those around you which could make
you suffer, but could not soil you ; and I slunk
away when you opened the door, lest you
should read the evil of my thoughts in my eyes
and shrink away in pain from me."

There was a touch of the feverish exaltation
which had marked his late illness in the young
man's face and voice as he confessed his
morbid fancy, and his eyes glittered from his
pale, thin face with something of the fanatical
devotion with which he had watched her when
she came into the room into which he had been
put in the west wing, on the night when he
arrived at the Hall.

*' Don't be afraid of me, don't be afraid of
me," said he gently. '' You know very well
you need not be. You can send me away
just when you like, and I will go at the first
word. I have got back my senses now, and
I will submit to you just as I used in the old
days on the sands at Lowestoft."

But she had only turned away from him
to dry her eyes ; and she took his hand Hke
a child, and led him to a seat and sat down
beside him, quite calm now, though her eyes
were red and her face was very sad.

'* I am no more afraid of you, James, than
I used to be then," she said, trying to infuse
her own o;rave self-possession into the still
violently excited young man, who stared at
her as if, in spite of his assurances, he was not
yet quite master of his reason. *' I am not
shocked ; I don't shrink from you. I didn't
know what you were going to tell me, or I
should never have given you the pain of
making you speak ; but I know now  I know
now that you are just the good, kind old
brother of the old days, and that it is not
through your own fault that you have been
unfortunate. Thank Heaven ! "

Go on, go on, Deldee ; tell me what you
mean."

'' I  I can't  I aren't  I don't know what
to do ! " she cried quickly, her calmness giving
way again. " The more I learn of the mystery
which hangs about this place and about you,

the more afraid I ore to know the meanlncr

o o

of it."

Tell me what you do know."

I must not yet. Don't ask me, James.
I know just enough to make the very fact of
living torture to me, to make solitude hideous ;
and to make me dread my own dreams  that
is what I know. But what to-night for the
first time I begin to guess is so much more
dreadful still, that the very thought of having
to bear the secret alone  as I must bear it 
seems to stop my breath and to make me feel
quite calm and cold, as if I were already
dead."

She spoke quietly, in a monotonous voice
that had lost all ring. James, brought to himself
by the intensity of the misery that seemed to
be crushing the very life out of her, took her
cold, nerveless hands in his own warm clasp and
bent towards her anxiously.

'' Why do you talk of bearing it alone, child ?
You can trust me  you have just said so."

I know that, and what I may tell you
I will. You are in danger, James, from the
man you trust most in the world."

He let her hands fall, and rose hastily In
great agitation, the cause of which she at first
mistook.

Now you are angry with me ! " said she,
with a plaintive sound of restrained misery in
her voice. '' And yet you ought to be able to
see your danger by this time without my warning.
It is foolish, it is mad of you to shut
your eyes any longer. Are you quite satisfied
with the life you have led since you left Waring-ham
on the night after my dear guardian, your
uncle, died ? Doesn't it ever occur to you now
that the measures you took for clearing your
character were not the right ones, and to ask
yourself how you came to be so ill-advised about
them ? Don't you ever wonder, now that you
are staying by yourself at Corbyn's farm, at the
strange cloud which seems to have hung over
your mind during the last few months, and
look about for the cause  for the influence "

She stopped short at the moment that he
turned quite white, with haggard, staring eyes,
and drawing his breath sharply, as if a wound
had been rudely touched.

*' You see I do," he groaned hoarsely. '' I

think and doubt and worry myself till the little
sense I have left seems to be going. Why do
you torment me by these hints ? You must
tell me all you know  you must ; for, if your
suspicions are right, there must be something
worse, something terrible behind."

His last words were so vehement that they
frightened Geraldlne. and for a moment she
dared not answer him, but dropped her gaze
from his passionate, fierce face to the carpet at
her feet. Then he came back to her and knelt
down by the seat in which she was still sitting,
and meekly bowed his head until his lips
touched her left hand, which was on the arm
of her chair. Her fingers quivered, he heard
a sob, and tears began to fall from her eyes
on to his curly hair.

Don't cry, my darling, don't cry. Never
mind the wretched mystery  I don't want to
hear anything that hurts you to tell. My poor
Deldee, my dear little fairy ! "

He was growing rather incoherent as he
leaned towards her and whispered his consolation
in the tenderest and lowest of tones, with lips
that came nearer and nearer to her ear, until

his hair touched hers. She started away from
him with one swift look, eloquent of fear and
reproach, which checked the outburst which
was trembling upon his lips.

Go, James ; you must go now," she urged,
trying to steady her voice. " Don't look like
that  I am not offended with you, my poor
brother ; but  I have warned you, and  and
you had better go now. Shake hands and 
and say, say good night  and don't forget what
I have said  suofQested."

She got up quickly and held out a shaking
hand to him.

Good night, Deldee, good night. I  -  "

He released her hand, almost flung: it from
him, and walked abruptly towards the outer
door of the conservatory without another look
at her. But his fingers had hardly touched the
handle when he stopped at the hoarse cry of
James ! "

She checked herself as she was running
towards him, and, holding the bars of a trellis
over which a passion-flower grew for support,
she asked, in a voice so weak that it scarcely
reached him as he stood still by the door 

What are you going to do ? Where are
you going ? "

'' Heaven knows ! "

'' Don't speak like that  don't pretend to
be hard  it will kill me. What does he want
you to do ? "

Doctor Ledbury ? "

She made a motion of assent.

''He wants me to go up to town with him
tomorrow morning."

Promise to stay at Waringham until my
husband returns."

'' Your husband ! "

'' Yes. You don't understand him ; I have
only just begun myself to know that I have
misunderstood him. If he has done you wrong
by his suspicions  as I am sure he has  he
has promised to atone for it, and he will keep
his word. Wait till he comes back. Promise ! "

Are you sure he is not deceiving you, Del-dee
? He is jealous and revengeful, and always
on the look-out to entrap you in some way."

Who told you that ? "

He hesitated, somewhat taken aback. She
continued, with fire 

'' Ledbury  it was Ledbury, I know ! Are
you not yet cured of believing him ? He is
still trying to keep you apart from those who
would serve you. When will you be warned ? "

'* But, Deldee, it was he who advised me
to come and see you to-night ; that was right,
wasn't it ? "

But she started back as he returned towards
her, and a horrible fear shone in her eyes.

No, no ! " she cried passionately. " To
send you here after poisoning your mind
against my husband  after persuading you to
think it would be best for you to  for me
to  leave him ! It was devils work ! Oh,
James, don't you see ? Can't you understand
? "

She was so violently excited that the hands
with which she staved off his nearer approach
shook and twitched most piteously, while she
glanced up at him with the helpless, wild look
of a hunted animal. But there was no need
for her to repulse him ; as the sense of her
words grew upon him, he became rigid with
horror, and it was not until she touched his
arm impatiently that his face relaxed, and he

put his hand slowly up to his head and looked
at her.

Deldee, it is impossible ! Why should he
doit?"

He is a bad man ! " she answered, trembling,
and growing confused.

'' Why, what do you know ? He never
told you that he had ever "

Ever what ? "

'' Been in prison."

He has been in prison ! When ? " she
asked eagerly.

'' Years ago, when he was a young man.
I guessed it by his walk, when I first saw him,
and he confessed it to me without my asking
him."

'' What made him tell you ? "

'' I don't know. Now I think, perhaps he
saw I suspected it ; then I thought it a proof
of generosity for him to place such a secretin
the keeping of a stranger. Deldee, I  I
must get out into the air ; the place seems
swimming round me."

He burst open the door of the conservatory,
and leaned against the doorway ; Geraldine

came slowly out and was turning to speak to
him, when some object seen dimly through
the mists of the evening drew her attention
away, and she remained silent, with a look
of suspicion and terror upon her face. James's
eyes followed hers, and he was springing
forward to cross the grass which stretched
between him and the motionless figure that
only watchful eyes could distinguish in the
heavy shadow of the trees, when her hand on
his arm arrested him.

No, no ; you must not touch him. You
have promised to submit to me ; now keep
your word."

She was in such terrible earnest, her low
whisper was so passionate, the clasp of her
fingers so convulsive, that James stopped at
once and looked down at her in astonishment.


Why ? Why do you want to hold me
back ? Your suspicions of him are stronger
than mine. You have warned me against him
yourself."

Yes, yes ; but I want you to avoid him.
You know he is dangerous  at least  at least

you seem to suspect that he is, and you yourself
confess that you are puzzled about him.
Then wait and watch, and try to be sure what
his intentions are towards you before you rush
hastily up to accuse him. That is only reasonable,
isn't it ? For even I, you see, am not
sure that my suspicions may not all be wrong.
So you wall wait  wait until my husband
comes back, won't you ? Promise."

There was nothing else to be done to
calm the pitiable state of nervous excitement
into which she had worked herself; so, very
reluctantly, James gave the promise ; and then
she shook his hand, rather abruptly wished
him good night, and turned back into the
conservatory. She vas able to control herself
until James, after lingering for one more long
gaze at the shining hair and soft white gown
which were all he could see of his good fairy
as she retreated slowly from the door, turned
and went straight back towards Corbyn's farm.
Without turning her head, without hearing a
sound, Geraldine knew the exact moment when
the gaze of his loving, longing eyes was withdrawn,
and, with a low moan of utter misery.

she flung herself Into her favourite chair, and,
twisting and writhing in her agony like a
wounded animal, she burst into a passion of
tears, the violence of which made her dead
to every sense but that of her grief.

With a shriek she started up when someone
touched her, and, stunned by the vehemence
of her own tears and sobs, she could
at first scarcely see, as she staggered back
against the trellised wall, who the soft-footed
intruder was. She had Instinctively fancied
it must be her husband, and the smile which
she always forced to her lips on his appearance
was already quivering on her tear-stained face
before her dimmed eyes discovered that It was
Doctor Ledbury who stood before her. In
his part of Mephistopheles he appeared to
her so hideous, so terrible, that, as if he had
been not a human being and a guest, but a
supernatural apparition, she rushed into the
house without a word, covering her face with
her hands. When, after some time spent in
her own room in trying to recover an unruffled
appearance, she again met the doctor in the
drawing-room, he had just received a telegram,

VOL. III. , 54

which he was showing to the old ladles, summoning
him, in the name of a well-known
baronet whom he declared to be a patient of
his, back to town. It was too late to catch
the last train that night ; but Doctor Ledbury
took his farewell of the ladies, as he would
have to start long before their appearance on
the following morning. He was most profuse
in his thanks to Geraldine for her hospitality,
and gave no sign of the understanding between
them ; but she detected a stealthy look from
eye to eye when he shook hands with Miss
Elizabeth, and a most unusual look of fear
on the lady's cold, hard face. It was not until
the gray light of the morning, when she heard
Doctor Ledbury's footsteps going downstairs
softly, for fear of disturbing the ladies' sleep,
and soon afterwards the sound of the carriage
as it drove away through the park, that
Geraldine, with a sigh of relief at his departure,
which was tempered by apprehension as
to the business which took him away, fell
asleep.

As she was entering the breakfast-room
next morning, the butler gave her a letter

directed in a scrawling, pointed woman's handwriting
to '' H. Hammond Esq." ; and as she
was fortunately the first to enter the room, she
made no scruple about opening it. It was, as
she expected, the answer to her letter to Mrs.
Fielding, and was written hurriedly and incoherently.


'' Dear Mr. Hammond,

'' Your letter has frightened me
dreadfully, and upset me so that I really don't
know what to do ! Don't you know that
Lindley has married me, and what do you want
with him ? He saw your letter, and he is very
angry and disturbed, and he says you have
nothing against him now, and you know it, and
he has never done anything to hurt you, and
he has no connection at all with all the dreadful
things you write about. I think it is very unkind
of you, as he knows nothing at all about it,
and he is at all times ready to answer for himself
 he says so. I don't know what you want
to rake up things and tell them to other people
for  and nor does he. I hope you will soon
.be well. I am sure my husband does not wish

you any harm  nor I don't either  but will be
delighted to hear you are quite recovered.
Yours truly,

"Ada Fielding.

Pes.  LIndley has just gone out. I don't
know what's the matter with him ; but he is
dreadfully bothered about something, and I
think It concerns you. Keep out of harm's
way  for I have picked up something about
another person."

Geraldine had time to finish reading this,
and to ponder over the significant " Pes."
before Miss Elizabeth joined her. Both ladies
passed a miserable morning ; the elder was
more disturbed than she had ever been known
to be before, while the younger waited anxiously
for some sign either from James or from her
husband.

It was about four o'clock when, as she was
walking restlessly about the paths close to the
house, unwilling to go farther away from home
when an arrival or a message mlQht mean so
much, Geraldine saw a cab drive up quickly
through the park, and her husband jump out

and come towards her. He looked so stern
that all her old fear of him woke and appeared
most plainly in her face as she met him. Her
expression made him stop short a few paces
from her ; and he asked rather harshly, raising
his hat, without any attempt at a warmer

greetings

Doctor Ledbury indoors ? "

No-o, Philip. He had a telegram last
night, and started for town early this morning."

'' Most unfortunate ! I hope you were civil
to him  didn't frighten him away ? "

She did not condescend to answer the
question, but, turning towards the house, asked
if he had had luncheon. He said " No," and,
as soon as it was prepared for him, she went
with him into the dining-room and dutifully
waited upon him while he ate a couple of
biscuits and drank glass after glass of wine.

Are you not afraid of making your headache,
Philip ? " she asked at last timidly, breaking
a silence during which he had seemed to
be too deeply immersed in gloomy thoughts
to notice her presence.

No ! " said he shortly ; and he rose from

the table, opened the door, and followed her
out. *' I am going for a walk ; I shall be back
In time for dinner," he said, almost without
looking at her.

And, passing into the outer hall, he took
up his hat and went quickly out, leaving his
wife in terror and suspense, wondering against
whom this fresh display of passion was directed,
and fearing lest, through some new device of
Doctor Ledbury's, it might have for its object
the unlucky James. When six o'clock struck,
and still Captain Morrison had not returned,
she could no longer bear the suspense ; and,
dressing hurriedly for a walk, she went through
the conservatory, crossed the garden and the
park towards the back of the house, and almost
ran along the lane that led to Corbyn's farm.
As she went, she was startled by seeing a
figure some little distance In front of her, dim
and shadowy In the fog and the gathering
night, dart from the centre to the edge of the
lane, and disappear either in the deep ditch
which bordered it or else into the hedge on the
opposite side. She was much alarmed by this,
and, as she fled past the spot where the figure

had vanished from her sight, she instinctively
cast a scrutinlzlnof Dance in that direction, and
noticed that the bare twigs of the hedge, which
was low, thick, and thorny, still cracked and
rustled at a point a couple of yards to the right
of an old harrow, which was lying on the edge
of the ditch. She ran on faster, not daring
to stay to make any further investigation,
though the Incident troubled her excited mind
and connected itself with the mysterious events
which were making Waringham a place of
terror and gloom to her.

As she approached the farmhouse, and
could see the lights in the windows through the
gatherings darkness and the foot, she fancied
that she detected signs of some unusual commotion
in the rapid passing and repassing of
a woman's figure In the glare of the fire of the
farmhouse-kitchen, where the window-curtains
where not drawn, and in the appearance and
disappearance of a light in one of the upper
rooms. She had just turned the corner by the
shed where James had discovered her twenty
years before, and thus come in sight of the
whole front of the house, when the door

Opened, and a gentleman came out, whose
face she could not see ; but by his gait she
recognized Mr. Crosse. She ran forward to
meet him, and her apprehensions were excited
to fever-pitch by the shock which her appearance
evidently gave him.

'' Mr. Crosse, what is it ? What has happened
? '*

Why, my dear Mrs. Morrison, what is the
matter with you ? Must the sight of a doctor
always forbode misfortune, even if he be taking
an evening stroll, and happen to call at a farmhouse
for a chat with a neighbour ? "

You can't put me off like that ! Why do
you try ? When you caught sight of me you
were not surprised, you were alarmed. What
has happened to him ? Is he hurt ? "

The doctor tapped the ground with his
foot impatiently, and seemed to hesitate what
to say. At last he blurted out quickly 

Ask your husband ! "  and walked on past
her without another word.

But, with a bitter cry  so low that it
scarcely reached his ears  she rushed towards the
farmhouse, and knocked hurriedly at the door.

CHAPTER IX.

Geraldine knocked two or three times at the
farmhouse door without result, and at last she
turned the handle and entered the passage. The
sounds of voices In the farm-kitchen, which she
had heard faintly as she stood outside, now
burst loudly upon her ears, and she could distinguish
the heart-broken sobs of Mrs. Corbyn,
and her husband's gruff tones as he administered
surly comfort.

'' Don't take on so, lass, as If you were a bit
of a thing of sixteen or so, Instead of a woman
pretty nigh forty-five. It's all ordered for the
best by some one who knows more about the
rights of It than you or me. And, after all, the
poor gentleman hadn't such a pleasant time of
it, by atl accounts, that he should be more loth

than another to change It for a better, which we
can all hope "

He stopped, arrested by a loud cry from his
wife. For, looking In at the door of the room,,
which she had pushed half-open without ceremony,
was the white, drawn face of young Mrs.
Morrison. She had listened, without uttering a
sound, to the farmer's words ; and now she
entered quite quietly, and, with a cold gravity,
which made the farmer watch her curiously,,
asked 

"Is Sir James Otway dead ? "

Both husband and wife moved uneasily, and
for a moment neither answered.

"Tell me, please  Is he dead ? " Geraldlne
repeated, in exactly the same tone.

Mrs. Corby n dried her eyes hastily, and
half-rose from her seat, with the light of an impetuous
resolution In her kind face. But her
husband checked her with a warning gesture of
his big, rough hand ; and she sank down again
mutely, while he got up himself with the slow,
rheumatic dignity of advancing years, and said.
In tones full of grave respect 

Something very sad has happened ; there's

no good of our denying that, ma'am. But what
it is and how it happened you will fittest learn
from some one that can tell you more about it,
and tell it better than we can."

Who do you mean ? This  has happened
in your house ; who can tell more about it than
you f

Captain Morrison was here too, ma'am, as
perhaps you know, and it is his wish that we
should leave the telling of it to him. Won't you
please let me see you safe home, ma'am ? I
promise you the captain won't keep you in
suspense long."

'' Where is he ? "

*' In the parlour opposite, ma'am, speaking
to Mr. Crosse."

Mr. Crosse has gone ; I met him as I came
in." She stood still, as if for a moment she
had lost all memory of where she was or
what she wished to do. Then she drew herself
suddenly erect, and saying quickly, *' I will go
and speak to my husband," she hurried out of
the room.

The farmer and his wife looked at each
other apprehensively.

"John," said the latter, decisively, "you
ought to have let me tell her. Told the way
the captain will tell it, it'll scatter the poor
thing's wits."

"It's not for us to come between husband
and wife, lass. The captain has his ends to
serve, and he ought to know his own business
best. And, right or wrong, he must have his
way now."

Oh, John, what does It mean ? You know
more than you'll say, and you ought to let your
wife know too. You know very well I can keep
a secret. What did the captain say to you
when he called you into the parlour, after we
heard the pistol go off and Master James cry
out ? "

"He said, * Keep out the women,' my lass,
and set a fine example, which I mean to follow."

"Well, it's downright unkind of you, John,
and it'll only make me set my wits to find out
what I want to know another way."

Spoke like a woman ! However, you won't
have to wait long ; it'll all come out soon enough
now. So, If you're wise, you'll just keep your
tongue silent a little while about what you do

know. It's the least you can do for the Waring-ham
folk, who have always been kind friends
to us  from old Sir James's time before Ave
were man and wife. What did Mr. Crosse say
when you ran to fetch him ? "

He didn't say anything, but just nodded
and said, ' At last ! ' as if he was quite used to
being sent for to people that had been shot.
He knows all about this mystery, the doctor
does, or he'd never have come each day sitting
for so long talking to Master James after he'd
got quite round. But of course he didn't let
anything out to me."

'' No. He's a married man, and has learnt
discretion this many a year."

Mrs. Corbyn was too much accustomed to
this sort of easy jibing at her sex on the part of
her husband, and too well aware how much it
was worth, to show the least resentment.
Knowing that the somewhat surly tone in
which he had sustained his share of the talk
was due, not to ill-temper, but to his Inability
to find adequate means of expression for the
grief and the sympathy he shared in equal
degree with herself over the misfortunes of the

Waringham household, she let the conversation
drop ; and, having dried her eyes, she listened
intently, under cover of being busy with her
needlework, to the faint sounds of voices which
reached the kitchen from time to time from the
parlour on the opposite side of the passage.

Geraldine had entered the room quickly, had
closed the door behind her, and then stood in
front of it without advancing further, her eyes
fixed upon her husband as if upon some object
of unutterable horror. He was sitting in a
horsehair-covered armchair by the high, old-fashioned
fireplace, where a neglected fire was
dimly burning. The room was in disorder ; the
table which usually stood in the middle had
been pushed against the sofa, the cushions and
antimacassars of which had been dragged on to
the floor. One of the window-curtains had been
torn down and a chair overturned. A small
lamp, the wick turned up too high, was flaring
on the table, blackening the glass with smoke
and filling the small room with a strong smell
of oil. But Captain Morrison paid no attention
to it.

If Geraldine had not entered with her mind

absorbed in one horrible thought of the work
which had brought him there, his face, as he
leaned back, with his head against the wooden
framework of the chair, would have awakened
in her some softer, kindlier feeling by the hard
look of intense suffering which had drawn his
pale face into furrows, and made him deaf as
the dead to the slight sounds made by her
entrance. But she had only one thought ; he
had murdered James.

After standing motionless by the door,
trying to speak, but rendered unable to do so
from lack of words to express the horror she
felt, she said, in a choking, harsh voice 

Where is he ? "

Her husband turned his head, opened his
closed eyes, and looked at her vacantly without
answering. She came forward and repeated the
question more calmly.

"Who? Who do you want?" he asked
shortly.

'' James  Sir James Otway !"

What do you want with him ? "

'' What do I want with him ? I  I want to
see him  I must see him ! "

*' I am afraid that's Impossible."

Why ? "

He has met with an accident."

*eat your hands . "

*'No."

At whose, then ? "

You shall know presently. I don't feel
equal to entering upon a long explanation now.
You can see I am tired  upset. Perhaps you
will kindly put off the catechism for a couple of
hours. Go home ; I will follow you shortly,
and satisfy your curiosity on every point. Are
you not going to obey me ? "

He put this question as she advanced still
farther into the room, hearing every word, but
occupied at the same time in examining the
disordered objects around her. As his last
sharply spoken words fell on her ears, she had
passed him and gone round the table towards
the window, looking at the curtain on the floor
and the fallen chair. She turned to reply to
her husband.

No," she said firmly. " You have taunted
me with passive obedience and you have cured
me of It. I shall not go away until I have

learnt what has happened here this afternoon."


I have told you already that an accident
has happened."

'' Do you think that will satisfy me ? Do
you expect me to go away smiling and contented
with that assurance ? Do you think
that, if you had loved a person and prayed for
him night and day for years, you could hear
calmly from the lips of his declared enemy that
he had met with an accident, and ask nothing
more ? And do you hope that I shall bow
my head meekly and go without another word,
just because you are my husband ? There are
limits to a slave's endurance, and there are
limits to a wife's. You must satisfy me before
I go."

She was white and trembling with conflicting
passions of anger, terror, and despair,
as she stood by the table a short distance from
him, sobbing out the hot words which from
time to time were scarcely audible. He drew
himself slowly up in his chair and turned to
face her.

'* Don't imagine that I expect much from

VOL. III. 55

you on the ground that you are my wife.
There are Emits to all your wifely virtues, and
they are very soon reached. But on the ground
that you are a reasoning human being, don't
you think you are in a great hurry to charge
me with having made away with this precious
Sir James Otway ? Heaven and earth couldn't
succeed in convincing you that he was guilty
of a murder, though the proofs were plain
enough ; yet now, when I am concerned, the
mere fact that a gentleman whom you expected
to see is not in the room with me is sufficient
ground for you to accuse me of being his
murderer. Is this all the advantage my proud
position as your husband gives me ? "

She paid no attention to him ; but, after
groping about in the feeble light of the smoking
lamp, she picked up the overturned chair ; and
the next moment, feeling that her hand was
wet, she held it up to the light and uttered a
shrill shriek as she saw the dark red stain upon
it. She fell down on her knees, sobbing like a
child, shaking like a leaf, utterly broken down
and reduced to the meekest, most miserable
pleading.

'' Philip," she quavered out, '' Philip, let me
see him, tell me where he is  alive or dead.
Have some pity upon me ; I am at your mercy,
I will never contradict you or resist you again
if you will have pity on me now. Look at me ;
aren't you satisfied ? Isn't my spirit broken
enough ? You shall treat me as you like  just
as you say a husband may treat his wife 
neglect me, strike me ; I will bear everything ;
only  only let me see James now. I must, I
must. Oh, Heaven, my heart is breaking ! I
shall die at your feet if you refuse."

She could only see dimly, through her fast-flowing
tears, the face of the man to whom she
was pleading ; she had to wait for the sound of
his voice to tell her whether her prayer was
successful. All her energy seemed suddenly
gone ; it did not occur to her to search the
house, to wonder whether it was James whom
she had seen in the lane ; she could do nothing
but sob helplessly, crushed at last, after six
months of suspense and misery on account of
her old playfellow, by the mysterious fate
which had befallen him.

There was silence when she had finished

speaking. She continued to sob bitterly, while
her husband for some moments said nothing.
At last she got up, with an impulse of energy,
and groped her way, still crying, towards the
door.

Where are you going ? " asked her husband,
in a hoarse voice.

'* I am going to find him. Since you won't
help me, I'll find a better guide."

Stop ! I will help you ; you shall see
him. Come back, and wait for me.'"'

She hesitated ; and her husband, coming
slowly to the door where she was standing, laid
his hand gently enough on her arm and led her
to the nearest chair.

Stay here, and I'll come and fetch you."

Something unusual in the tone of his voice
made her look up ; and the sight of his face, ashe
stooped to say these words close to her ear,
froze back her tears and appalled her. She had
seen him angry often enough, she had seen him
hurt by her own coldness ; but she had never
before seen his face branded by the savage
agony which marked it now. For one moment

it touched her ; she instinctively threw out her
right hand to detain him, that she might question
him sympathetically. The expression of
his sensitive face changed at once ; but at the
same moment her eyes fell upon the stain
which still showed on her hand, and, withdrawing
it quickly, she shrank back into herself with
a shudder ; and then she heard one sharply
drawn breath escape him as he opened the
door and left her.

She listened to his lagging tread as he very
slowly mounted the stairs, and she heard him
open a door above ; but, as the room he entered
was not immediately over her head, she could
distinguish no further sound. She did not
attempt to disobey him and satisfy her burning
impatience sooner by following him upstairs 
she was afraid of her husband; the terrible
look on his face she ascribed to remorse, and,
while her horror grew greater with every moment
of spectre-haunted suspense, it was horror
mingled with involuntary respect for a strong
nature in pain. She had sat rigidly listening
for some moments, when her intent ears again

heard the slight sound of the opening of a door
above, and her husband's slow footsteps along
the passage upstairs.

Geraldine ! " he called.

The kitchen door opened at the moment
that Geraldine stepped into the passage. Mrs.
Corbn appeared, and asked timidly if anybody
called.

"It is only my husband calling me, Mrs.
Corbyn," she replied, trying to smile into the
tear-stained, sympathetic face of the farmers
wife, who gave a hasty glance up the stairs,
saw that Captain Morrison's back was turned,
and whispered into the lady's ear, with surreptitious
eagerness 

Don't take on so, ma'am, and don't be too
hard to him, or you'll be sorry afterwards 
indeed you will!"

Then she hurried back into the kitchen,
leaving Geraldine bewildered and apprehensive
as she went up the staircase. Her husband,
who was standing at a door with his fingers
upon the handle, said, in a low voice 

Can you bear a sight which will be a
terrible shock to you ? Can you bear it quietly,

I mean, and keep your sobs and moans till
by-and-by ? "

'' Yes," said Geraldine, coldly, braced up by
the harsh and sneering tone.

Very well ; that is a promise, remember ; "
and he opened the door, and led the way into
a small, low-ceiling bedroom, on the painted
wooden dressing-table of which was a tallow
candle. He signed to her to pass him into the
room, and when, close to the dressing-table, she
turned, she saw that on the big, mahogany,
curtained bedstead behind the door something,
covered over by a sheet, was lying. Her husband
watched her ; but she kept her word. A
shudder shook her from head to foot ; but she
did not utter a sound. As soon as the convulsion
of her limbs was past, she advanced
to the side of the bed, and, before her husband
could prevent her, lifted the sheet off the head
of the figure. Then, after one look at the still
face, she replaced the sheet with steady hands
and turned away.

Now I am ready to go," she said quietly ;
and they left the room together. 'will you
tell me all about it now ? " she asked, with the

same frigid meekness, as soon as they were
outside.

'' Not now ; I have something to say to
Mrs. Corbyn. There are watching and funeral
arrangements to be made, and I must speak to
her about them. I wish you to return home
without me at once."

She began to tremble again, as he said these
words in a matter-of-fact tone which jarred upon
her horribly.

Ah," he continued drily, " I guessed how
much your vows of eternal submission, if I
only ' let you see him, alive or dead,' were
worth ! "

'' No, Philip, you are mistaken. I will keep
my word ; I will never oppose you again. I
will obey you like a slave. What else can I do ?
I have nothing else to live for now."

She lifted his hand with lifeless meekness
to her lips, and, printing a cold kiss of obedience
on her husband's fingers, she went
downstairs and out of the farmhouse without
another word. Captain Morrison started forward
as she left him, but restrained himself

as he was on the point of crying out to her.
He leaned over the banisters of the landing
and watched her go out of the house ; then,
with a sigh heavy with the whole weight of
the utmost sorrow a man can bear, he went
back slowly to the room he had just left.

CHAPTER X.

It was nine o'clock that evening before Captain
Morrison returned to the Hall. Dinner was
kept back, and then hurried over in uneasy
and fitful attempts on the part of Geraldine
and of Miss Elizabeth, who guessed that something
serious had happened, to keep the
conversation going, as if the absence of the
master of the house was a trifling accident.
Geraldine dared not speak of James's death
until she had learnt the details of it. She was
very white, heavy-eyed, and listless ; but she
was no longer tearful ; and this terrible climax
to the misery of long months found her able
to bear up under the horror and the mystery
of it with the calm dignity inspired In a strong
nature by a grief without remedy.

When the ladies went into the drawing-room,

Geraldlne tried to occupy herself with
some fancy-work, sitting by the side of Miss
Eleanor, who, contrary to her usual practice
when any slight disturbance of the household
routine took place, had made very few comments
on Captain Morrison's absence, and had
been somewhat silent during dinner. But now
she would not rest on her sofa ; she fidgeted,
she sighed, she uttered disconcerting little
moans, and at last she raised herself on her
elbow and croaked out in her thin, weak
tones 

Geraldine, I must speak. I don't know
how you and Elizabeth feel about this ; but
I am very uncomfortable, and, if Captain
Morrison were my husband, I should think
he was dead  I know I should! He has
never been a favourite of mine, you know,
for I cannot help my instinctive abhorrence
for the sanguinary profession of a soldier.
But he is never inconsiderate, and whatever
slaughter he may have been guilty of
on the battle-field, he has, at least, never
before been so inconsiderate as to keep us
waiting for dinner. There has been something

altogether wrong about this household
lately ; I have felt It frequently, though I have
said nothing about it until now, and now I
feel  I have a presentiment that something
dreadful is going to happen. If I were you,
Geraldine, I would send out In search of
Captain Morrison."

The young lady rose and tried to caress
the old lady into calmness with trembling
fingers.

"You need not be alarmed for him, Aunt
Eleanor. Whoever may be in danger, you
may be sure he will return safely," she said
bitterly.

But the black eyes remained fixed upon
her piercingly.

'' Oh, Geraldine, you are too hard ! " said
the crone-like creature earnestly. "He is
your husband, and he has been unhappy lately
I have seen it. You ought to be kind to
him, whatever he has done."

Geraldine, touched by this stray shot, left
the old lady In remorse at the look of pain
and uneasiness which her words had called
up In the young wife's face. She walked to

the end of the room and opened the piano ;
but she had scarcely struck the first notes
of an old piece she knew by heart when she
heard the entrance-bell, and her fingers fell
idly on the keys as she listened to the butler's
footsteps on the pavement of the entrance-hall,
to the opening of the door, and to sounds
of several voices, among which she recognized
that of Mr. Crosse. She sprang up, across
to the door, and into the outer hall, where
she waited for some moments listening. She
heard the voice of Farmer Corbyn without
being able to distinguish what he said ; then
the gruff tones of Sam, one of the farm-labourers
; an exclamation from Johnson, and
a few authoritative words from the doctor ;
these she heard and understood 

Carefully, carefully a little to the left ! "
And she heard the tramp of men's feet in
the passage. They were bringing something
in. She fell back against the door through
which she had just passed, more overcome
by this unexpected shock than she had been
by the sight of her old playfellow as he lay
stiff and still on the bed at the farmhouse.

For this ghastly end to all her efforts, all her
prayers on behalf of her beloved guardian's
nephew recalled suddenly to her mind the
vow she had made never to rest until she had
brought him back in honour to Waringham.
Well, he had come now, with the honour due
to the dead ! She closed her eyes to keep
back the tears that sprang to them, and set
her teeth that no weak sound of wailing might
escape her ; and she heard the voices and the
footsteps as they advanced from the entrance
into the large hall, and she heard her husband
say 

'not upstairs ; into the library."

The next minute Mr. Crosses hand shook
her shoulder gently.

Rouse yourself, my dear Mrs. Morrison ;
don't be alarmed. It is nothing serious ; your
husband has only sprained his ankle."

"My husbands"

She had opened her eyes at the doctor's
touch, and she now turned them towards the
library door, through which Captain Morrison
was being carried on a rough stretcher formed
by a narrow door which had been taken off its

hinges at the farmhouse for this purpose.
Mr. Corbyn and Sam and the butler soon
came out, and, after waiting a few minutes
until they had left the hall, Geraldine knocked
at the library door. The doctor opened it.

How is he ? " she asked perfunctorily,
with hard, dry eyes.

"He is all right  at least he soon will be,
if he allows his foot to rest. Will you give
directions for a comfortable sofa to be brought
in here, or a small bedstead ? The sofa here
is too narrow."

Glad of some occupation, Geraldine retired,
gave the necessary orders, and went into the
drawing-room to calm the fears of the old
ladies, who had heard the commotion and
been much alarmed by it. Mr. Crosse came
in before long with a comforting assurance that
there was no cause for any anxiety ; and, soon
after his departure, the Misses Otway went
to their rooms, after bidding good night to
Geraldine, who watched them go upstairs, and
then returned to the large hall and knocked
softly at the library door. The senior housemaid,
a staid woman of thirty-five, who had

been appointed by Mr. Crosse to watch by
Captain Morrison during the night, opened
the door.

How is the captain now ? "

"He is rather restless, ma'am ; the doctor
said he would be."

And he told you to sit by him ? " asked
Geraldine, to whom this arrangement seemed
portentous.

'' Yes, ma'am."

** I see. I will take your place in ten
minutes, and you can go into the drawing-room
and make yourself as comfortable as you can
there for the night. I will watch here, and
you will be near in case I want you."

'' Who's that ? " now asked her husband's
voice irritably.

Geraldine left the servant to answer him,
went to her room, and returned in a few
minutes in her dressing-gown, prepared to
watch through the night. She opened the
library door softly, dismissed Gainsford by a
gesture, and slipped into the chair vacated by
the maid. Captain Morrison appeared not to
notice this change of nurse, but continued to

move restlessly on the bed which had been
made up for him, and It was not until he
stretched out his hand towards a glass containing
some cooling drink, which had been
placed on the table beside him, that he showed
recognition of his wife's presence as she rose
and, taking up the glass, held it to his lips ;
but, Instead of tasting it, he looked up at her
and said gruffly 

What are you here for ? "

I am here to nurse you," she answered
gently, but without either the meekness which
in her he loathed or the love which he longed
for.

To nurse me ! What do you mean ?
There is nothing the matter with me to require
all this unaccustomed attention, and this sacrifice
of your rest is entirely uncalled for. You
had better go to bed."

The words were about as ungracious as they
could be  the tone in which they were spoken
was neither affectionate nor amiable; but still
he leaned against her shoulder as she helped
him to raise himself, and he kept her a longtime
holding the glass for him while he slowly

VOL. III. 56

quenched his thirst. Then he raised his eyes
again to her face with a hard, keen look, glanced
again at the glass and back to her.

I suppose you don't want to poison me ? "
he said grimly. " But I must confess I don't
understand this new devotion after the pleasant
things you said to me at the farm. This fresh
burst of wifely duty, I suppose. Is meant as a
rebuke for my villainy  coals of fire on my
murderer's head."

"No It Isn't. It " Her voice broke,

and she was silent.

"Well?"

I simply want to act rightly towards you.
I dare say you won't believe me. If you will
not let me try to drown the misery I am suffering
In waiting upon you and doing my best to
be to you what a wife should be during her
husband's Illness, I think I shall go mad."

Then I have to thank James Otway's
death for this recognition of your duties towards
me ? "

She shivered and Involuntarily tried to
withdraw herself from him. But he leaned
against her more heavily and clutched her left

hand, while his breath came in gasps and his
eyes began to glow with passion.

No, no. I accept your services, whatever
the motive of them may be. And you may be
satisfied on one point : it was not I who shot
James Otway."

Who was it ? "

James Otway himself."

*' Will you swear that ? "

Yes, I swear it."

She began to tremble so violently, as she
still stood supporting him, that he put his arm
round her and whispered huskily 

Don't be so miserable ; you  you think
there is nothing left in the world for you ; but
you are mistaken. You will be happy some
day, I swear. Be kind to me ; I have been
wretched, too, lately. Just be kind to me until
  until my ankle gets well ; I will ask no more
than that from you. Don't you think you can
promise me that ? "

His passion-lit face, under the dark skin of
which the red blood was glowing, drew closer
and closer to hers ; his hot hands clung more
convulsively to her shrinking form, his voice

grew lower, more broken, as he pleaded with
the savage earnestness of a man whose very
life hangs on the answer for which he is praying.
Her heart was touched and her eyes,
filled.

'' I am very miserable," she whispered
timidly. "It makes me selfish  makes me
forget that anybody else can be as unhappy
as I am. I have been cruel and wicked to you
to-day ; I will atone to you, I will be good to
you from this moment. My poor Philip  see
I will be kind to you ! "

She drew his head very gently on to her
shoulder and kissed his forehead lightly just
where the dark hair curled about his temples.
More than ever before, the flood of his passionate
recognition of her kindness astonished
and even alarmed her. For a few moments
he lay trembling, panting on her breast, and
then burst into a torrent of hot tears and heavy
sobs that made him shake and shiver in her
arms, as he incoherently whispered thanks and
blessings and clasped her to him with a terrible
fervour, which suggested that of a drowning
man clutching at the spar which may prolong

his battle for life. Her alarm changed to pity
for him, and she soothed the tumult she had
roused with real tenderness, and dried his
eyes with her own handkerchief, and held his
head between her hands while she begged
him not to excite himself so much in his
feverish state, but to lie down and take the
rest he needed.

You are very ill," she said authoritatively.
'' There is more than your sprained ankle the
matter with you, I am sure. You are weak
and restless, and your hands and lips are
parched and as hot as fire. If you do not
rest, I am afraid you will soon be in a fever."

Her words seemed to strike him, and he
instantly tried to recover himself, and let her
lay him down upon his pillow without a protest.

Yes, yes, you are right," he replied. " A
sprained ankle is a serious thing, and I am
restless and excited to-night. I must not let
myself get feverish, for I have a great deal todo
just now, and I must be fit for business
tomorrow. Mr. Fielding will be down herein
the morning, for one thing, I expect ; I
telegraphed to him, knowing he was a relative

of Sir James's, and you will have to see him
when he comes, and tell him all about it. It
will be painful for you, I know, Geraldine ; but,
if I am not well enough to see him myself, I
am afraid I must ask you to do this for me."

'' See Lindley Fielding ! " faltered she ; then,
remembering her promise to her husband, she
said dutifully, " Very well ; I will see him if
you wish. Now you must lie quietly and try
to sleep."

Will you  would you mind bringing your
chair nearer, and sitting where I can see you,
in case I want anything ? "

She sat down obediently by the bedside,
and when presently his hand stole towards her,
she advanced her own to meet it, and he
smiled with a radiance of passionate joy over
his pale face and whispered 

Geraldine, Geraldine, you are good, you
are true-hearted ! You shall be happy some
day, I swear it ! "

And then little by little the firm clasp of
his fingers round hers relaxed, and as the fire
grew low and the night wore on, he fell quietly
asleep. It was not until seven o'clock next

morning that his wife left him to get a couple
of hours' rest before breakfast-time. There
was a note from Doctor Ledbury on the table,
which Geraldlne read and passed to Miss
Elizabeth, who had evidently recognized the
hand-writing, which was quite unknown to the
younger lady. It was dated from London
the evening before, and recorded his safe
arrival, his regrets that he had been forced to
leave Warlngham without farewell to Captain
Morrison. It was quite a formal note, and
Geraldlne took It to her husband with his own
letters. He was rather irritable this morning,
and his first greeting was cool and not destitute
of his old suspicion ; but she would not accept
his coldness as a rebuff, and she took his
breakfast from the servant at the door, brought
it to him, and waited upon him so very sweetly
that, as she removed the tray and re-arranged
his pillows, he detained her to kiss him, and
said quickly 

'' There's a kind little wife ! You are not
offended by my ill-temper ? I didn't mean to
be harsh to you ; but my ankle pains me this
morning."

You are sure there is nothing the matter
with you but the sprain ? You look very ill
this morning."

"No, no; I'm getting on all right; but I
think I must have turned my foot again in the
night ; as I tell you, it pains me."

You must see Mr. Crosse at once, then.
I will send "

No, no ; he has promised to call this morning,
so you need not send. Now I must write
some letters, unless you will write them forme."


She ran for her desk, and when she returned
he was looking at Doctor Ledbury's note again.
He had read it through for the first time
without comment ; now he said 

'' Doctor Ledbury will be dreadfully upset
by this  unhappy affair, won't he ? "

She started, and the blood rushed into her
pale face, while her husband watched her
closely.

'' Yes, I suppose he will," she answered, as
calmly as she could ; and, though Captain
]morrison noticed her confusion, he said nothing
about it.

She had written three or four letters at his
dictation when they heard the sounds of an
arrival, and Johnson came to say that Mr.
Fielding was In the drawing-room. Geraldine
rose, trembling and hoarse, and, with a submissively
inquiring glance at her husband, was on
her way to the door when he called her back.
She was struck by a certain look of steady determination
which had grown every moment
stronger since the announcement of the visitor's
arrival.

Geraldine," he said, '' you will satisfy Mr.
Fielding's anxiety as fully as you possibly can.
Tell him I am sincerely sorry that an accident
to my foot prevents my seeing him myself.
Tell him I was at the farm a few minutes after
Sir James's attempt on his own life, and I saw
him before he died. Ask him to stay here tonight,
and I will see him."

Philip, you are not in a fit state to see anybody
, I am sure of it. You look ghastly, and
your voice Is quite weak this morning. I will
tell him just what you like ; but you must not
see him yourself."

He raised himself to look at her, and smiled.

as if pleased by her anxiety on his account.
Then he said 

Well, I won't see him until I am better, if
you like. But you must not tell him you are
alarmed about me ; you must only say what I
have told you  remember."

'' Very well, Philip."

She left him, and went into the drawing-room,
where Lindley Fielding started up
nervously from the sofa, where he had been
talking low and earnestly to Miss Eleanor, who
remained trembling after Geraldine's entrance,
as if something in the conversation she had just
held had alarmed her.

How do you do, my dear Mrs. Morrison ?
But indeed I dare scarcely ask how you are, for
I am sure that this shock has affected you more
than any one. I can hardly even believe it yet.
Can it really be true, as my cousin has just told
me, that poor James Otway committed suicide
yesterday ? Captain Morrison telegraphed tome
the sad tidings last night, and I came by the
first train this morning, hoping against hope that
some mistake would prove to have been made."

It is true  tell him it is true ! " quavered

out the poor old lady, who had not long learnt
the tidings herself, and who now spoke as if
she had found her cousin difficult to convince of
the truth of her information.

'' Yes, I am sorry to say it is true," said
Geraldine, solemnly ; " my husband was at the
farm a few minutes after the shot was fired, and
was, I believe, present when Sir James died. He
is very sorry that he cannot receive you himself,
but he sprained his ankle as he was returning
from the farm last night, and has not left his
room since. You will stay here to-night, will
you not ? My husband begs that you wilL
We are both very sorry your visit has to take
place in such unhappy circumstances. Of course
you will want to go to the farm and see poor
James ? "

'well  er yes, I suppose  I suppose I
had better," said Lindley with a good deal of
evident reluctance. He hated the very suggestion
of death, and the idea of looking upon a
dead man's face appalled him. "Of course some
of his relatives ought to go and see that  that
it's all right," he wound up inappropriately.

Oh, if by ' all right ' you mean the certainty

that he really is dead, 'some of his
relatives ' have already ascertained that. I saw
I saw James  dead  last night," she assured
him, her voice shaking.

She had spoken with some hardness, for
LIndley's manner jarred upon her terribly. It
seemed to her that he was more concerned
in assuring himself that James was really dead
than In grieving over the circumstance ; and
the words he now uttered confirmed this strange
impression.

"I really don't see that there is any necessity
for me to go to the farm, Mrs. Morrison," he
said In a tone In which she chose to fancy she
could detect great relief. " I am sure the sight
would quite upset me, for I was very much
attached to the poor fellow. Do you know what
led to his committing the  the rash act ?
Surely It was very sudden ! "

'' He had been unfortunate, singularly unfortunate,
for some time past," she answered
rather significantly. " I believe his persistent
and strange ill-luck preyed upon his mind."

Dear me, dear me ! " exclaimed Lindley,
who was growing very restless under the dry

hardness of her manner towards him. " How 
how extremely  er  sad ! " After a moment's
pause, he added impulsively  '' I am very sorry
I cannot see Captain Morrison. "

Has Doctor Ledbury heard of James's
death ? " croaked out the shrill voice of the
invalid Eleanor.

Both Lindley and Geraldine started ; and
the former said hastily 

Of course, I informed him at once  went
myself to his house, which is not ten minutes'
walk from mine, and told him. I never saw
a man so overwhelmed  never."

He stopped short in the middle of this
speech, which he was pouring out hastily, and
turned quickly from Geraldine, who was listening
frigidly, to the more sympathetic Eleanor.

I expect  I quite expect he will be down
here to-day," he continued. "His nerves are
more robust than mine in such a case, owing,
of course, not to his temperament, but to his
profession. Doctors have to control their
feelings."

'coming here to-day?" exclaimed Geraldine,
in a loud, ringing voice which caused Miss Otway

to shriek and LIndley to start up with gloomy
eyes and damp forehead. There was a silence
of a few seconds, which LIndley broke with an
awkward laugh.

'' You quite alarmed me, Mrs. Morrison, my
nerves having been already a good deal shaken
by the shock."

When Is he coming ? " she Interrupted
sharply.

'' Indeed I cannot tell you. He said last
night that he would be here early ; but he did
not say by what train he should come."

' He said last night.' Then you saw him
last night ? "

'' Certainly," said LIndley, shifting his eyes
from her face to Eleanor's and thence to the
fireplace. *' I have already told you, Mrs.
Morrison, that, on receipt of Captain Morrison's
telegram, I at once Informed Doctor Ledbury
of the sad occurrence, knowing, as I did, that
he was our unfortunate relative's best friend."

Geraldlne laughed In such a hard. Ironical
manner that It was Impossible for either of her
hearers to mistake its significance.

Geraldlne, what do you mean } You are

frightening me dreadfully ! " broke in the
querulous old lady's voice.

'' Nothing, Aunt Eleanor ; I am sorry I
frightened you," she replied, recovering herself
and speaking in a different tone. '* Mr. Fielding,
you started so early that I am. sure you
have not had breakfast," she continued, as she
touched the bell ; and she turned the talk to
lighter subjects until, excusing herself on the
plea that her husband wanted her, she left the
duties of entertainment to Miss Eleanor. But
she was stopped before she reached the library
door by Johnson, who told her that Mr. Crosse
was with his master ; and, although she waited
in the inner hall that she might run to meet
the doctor as he came out and satisfy herself
concerning the condition of her husband,
whose reticence on the subject caused her some
anxiety, he managed to elude her by leaving the
library very quietly and pretending to be deaf
when she called to him as he slipped hurriedly
through the front door. She would have followed
him, but that she knew any questions
he did not wish to answer would be met by
evasion. She knocked at the door of the

library ; but her husband called out that he was
engaged, and asked her to come back in an
hour. Disturbed by this answer, she asked the
butler whether any one was with his master and
he said. Yes ; young Mr. Bamber and a person
had been with him for the last twenty minutes ;
they were there when the doctor came.

'' Was the other person a stranger ? " asked
Geraldine, who fancied old Johnson knew more
than he chose to tell her.

'' Yes, ma'am  at least, he is a stranger tome.


What is he like ? "

''He is short and dark and very thin, with
close-cut whiskers  very respectably dressed,
ma'am."

'' Not a gentleman ? "

No, ma'am."

Geraldine went upstairs and dressed fora
walk, very much disturbed by this information
; for she remembered her request to
Reginald to set a detective to watch Doctor
Ledbury's movements from the moment of his
leaving the Hall, and she was paralyzed years
concerning the disclosures the officer

might have to make. She went through the conservatory
towards the farm, giving herself the
pretext that she must ask Mrs. Corby n for
further details of the horrible scene which had
taken place there ; but she was half-conscious
that the strongest motive which led her in
that direction was the longing to look upon
James's face again. But she was disappointed.
All the blinds were drawn down, and no one
answered her knock at the farmhouse door ;
so she went in and looked Into the kitchen.
No one was there. She closed the door softly,
went lightly up the stairs and tried the door of
the room where she had seen James lying. But
it was locked  she could see through the keyhole
that the blind was drawn down, and she
turned away shuddering and miserable, struck
with the terrible loneliness of this silent house,
with its neglected dead, and stole downstairs
again. At the door of the sitting-room, where
she had met and accused her husband, she
paused, not wishing to go in, but arrested by
an Irresistible fascination. It also was locked ;
but she remembered that the window had no
fastening, and was easily opened from the out-vol.
in. 57

side. Going quickly out, still without meeting
any one, she pushed up the window of the
sitting-room, pulled aside the blind with a
trembling hand, and peered in. The room was
in exactly the same state as on the previous
evening ; the blackened lamp had been extinguished,
but it still stood on the table ; one
curtain lay on the floor, the cloth was half-dragged
from the table. One ghastly secret,
which the dim lamp-light had not revealed,
was laid bare by the glare of the morning. A
great dark stain spread over the floor between
the window and the table, dyed the tablecloth
on one side, and showed on the chintz of the
overturned chair. The sight filled Geraldine,
prepared as she had been for some trace of the
scene of the previous afternoon, with horror ;
she pulled down the window and turned away,
without seeing Mrs. Corbyn's face, stained with
tears of sympathy, looking at her retreating
figure sorrowfully from an upper window

When she reached the Hall, she received
another shock; for the butler announced that
Doctor Ledbury had arrived, and was in the
drawing-room with the ladies and Mr. Fielding.

Does your master know ? "

'eyes, ma'am. He told me to tell you as
soon as you came in, when he heard you had
gone out."

She went straight to the drawing-room,
very slowly, very reluctantly, as if there were
some sight or scene awaiting her there which
would be almost more than she could bear.
Her appearance was the signal for intense
excitement in the little group round the fireplace.
Doctor Ledbury advanced to meet her,
dressed in black and wearing an air of deepest
solemnity. She shrank back, in spite of herself,
as he held out his hand ; but, affecting to see in
this movement merely a sign of physical weakness,
he drew her arm through his with a firm
clasp before she could protest, and led her
to a chair beside the old ladies. It was curious
that the presence of Lindley Fielding, who was
extremely nervous in spite of an elation which
he in vain tried to hide, seemed to restore all
the self-confidence and dignity which Miss
Eleanor had missed from Doctor Ledbury's
manner during his last visit.

I am extremely sorry to hear that I

shall not have the pleasure of seeing Captain
Morrison this morning," said he, when he had
sat down with easy assurance by Geraldine
side.

But that need not delay the statement you
have to make, my dear fellow," said Lindley,
quickly. "At a time like this, when these
ladies are all deploring the loss of one who was
as dear to them  almost, as to yourself, the
tidings we have to break to them will, we may
hope, prove some sort of consolation."

Geraldine sat quite still, listening, waiting.
Miss Elizabeth glanced restlessly from one face
to another. Miss Eleanor was the only one
who was quite unprepared for the revelation
about to be made.

What does he mean, Elizabeth ? " she
croaked out, In a whisper.

"What do I mean, my dear cousin?" replied
Lindley, in a tone which grew more jubilant
in spite of himself. " Why, I mean that, to
replace, as far as may be, the James Otway we
have lost. Heaven has appointed me the happy
ambassador of the consoling tidings that there
is another, and I may say, worthier James-otway

to keep up the family name, and, we will
hope, to restore the family fortunes, and that
the man whom you have known as Doctor
Ledbury is poor Charles's son, and Geraldine s
brother."

Impossible ! " cried Eleanor. " Geraldine,
Elizabeth, it is not true ! "

But Geraldine and Miss Elizabeth were both
silent.

I will not  I cannot believe it ! We
should have heard of it before "

*' I think you can see that you are the only
person in the room who has not heard of it
before, my dear Eleanor," said Lindley, glancing
at the disturbed but not astonished faces of the
two other ladies. "As for James's reason for
not confessing himself openly before this, it is
one which, I must say, does him great honour."

"It is merely a point of justice with me,"
put in the other gravely and modestly. " I
could not, during the life of my Cousin James,
whom I had learnt to love as if he had really
been the brother he delighted to call himself,
deprive him of the position he had always
held as the heir of Sir Charles, whom I had

only a short time before his death learnt to
be my father."

This was a remarkably generous speech 
rather too neat perhaps, but short and to
the point; yet it failed to draw any response
from its hearers. There was a dead silence
when he ended, until Miss Eleanor's voice
again broke in with a querulous objection.

** But James couldn't inherit the property,
because he was under sentence of penal servitude
for life ; so I don't understand your
motive."

'' But he had escaped, and my claiming
the title and the property would have set
the police in motion after him again while
he was actually under my care."

'' I don't understand it at all," again
quavered the old lady, " and I think Mn
Massey or some lawyer ought to be sent
for to inquire into this."

Mr. Massey will be here before the week
is out," said Lindley, triumphantly. '' I saw
him not long ago, and I have some letters
of his here which will prove to you that he
was one of the principal agents in establishing

the claim of the present Sir James Otway.
In the mean time, Eleanor, your sister can
satisfy you, as she saw the certificates of
Charles's marriage and his children's birth
in my hands on the night your brother died."

'' But that does not prove that this is
one of his children," persisted Eleanor, encouraged
by a look almost of approval from
her sister, who was unusually silent and
crestfallen.

'' Ask Mrs. Symes. She was present when
poor Charles acknowledged his son."

'' Then why didn't he proclaim himself at
once ? " questioned the old lady, in the silence
of all the rest.

I have already explained that," retorted
Lindley, who was becoming rather restless,
and who was much relieved when the butler
entered the room with a request from Captain
Morrison that Doctor Ledbury, Mr. Fielding
and the ladies would come to him in the
library.

Eleanor excused herself, afraid of some
scene which would disturb her nerves, already
shaken by the revelation made by Lindley,

and by her own unusual display of energy
in questioning the truth of It. The rest went
at once to the library, where preparations had
been made which showed that importance was
attached by its occupant to the scene about
to take place there.

The bed had been taken away ; the tall
screen, which usually shut in a small space
round the fireplace from the draught, had
been pushed back into a corner, to make
way for chairs arranged for the expected
visitors ; Captain Morrison had forsaken his
favourite armchair, and lay with his back to
the light on the sofa which had been placed
by the fireside. He did not offer to shake
hands with either of the gentlemen when they
came in ; but  apologizing in a grave voice
for having to ask them to come to him, ashe
had sprained his ankle on the previous
afternoon  and he pointed to his bandaged
foot  he said he believed they had come
that day to make some important statements,
and he should feel very much interested if
they would let him hear them.

Both gentlemen seemed astonished and

somewhat disconcerted by this intimation that
some inkling of their business had reached
Captain Morrison's ears ; but LIndley recovered
himself almost Immediately, and at once took
upon himself the office of narrator of a story,
the proofs of which, in letters and other papers,
he produced as he proceeded.

CHAPTER XI.

Lindley's story began at the time when the
late Sir Charles, five and twenty years ago,
had been stationed with his regiment in
Ireland. Already approaching middle age, he
had fallen in love with a beautiful peasant-girl,
the daughter of a small farmer, and
privately married her. But she was a wild,
high-spirited girl, very young and very fickle ;
she soon got tired of her prosy, middle-aged
husband, and, two months before her confinement,
she left him for an old love of hers, a
good-looking young Irishman in her own rank
of life. Ten weeks later, having been unable
in the mean time to discover any trace of her,
Sir Charles received a visit from her sister, who
came with the news that Kathleen, his wife, had
died in giving birth to a child, who was since

dead also. The woman brought back to him
some trifling trinkets he had given to his wife,
together with the loving letters which she had
scarcely been able to read ; she also told him
where his wife and child were burled, and,
though, as there were no names over the
graves which he visited by his sister-in-law's
direction, and he could not see the register
on account of the absence of the priest, he
had to take his sister-in-law's story upon trust,
no motive for deception had occurred to the
simple-hearted gentleman, and he had never
doubted the truth of it.

But Lindley now declared that Kathleen
had sent her sister to Sir Charles to cut off
the last tie between them, that she might live
undisturbed with the twin-children, a boy and
a girl, who had been born to her, and With
the man of her choice. It was only when a
new family began to absorb her attention that
it occurred to her to dispose of her two
legitimate children by bringing the girl to
England and leaving It within sight of her
husband's home, and by consigning the boy
to the care of her sister, who was well-married

and childless. From a vague fear of the
terrors the law might bring upon her if she
told a lie in writing," the ignorant Kathleen
had caused the birth of the children to be
registered in her husband's name; and it was
as James Otway, though ignorant of the story
of his birth, that the boy was adopted by
his aunt and her husband. They were fond
and proud of him, and as they rose in the
world they gave him a good education, and
finally sent him to Dublin University with
the design of making a doctor of him, taking
pride in the fact that by their care they had
restored him to the position of a gentleman,
of which his mother's rash flight had robbed
him.

'rit was on the occasion of my going to
Dublin to visit our late unlucky relative, the
other James Otway, who was then in prison,"
continued Lindley, " that I met the present
Sir James by chance at an hotel, and was so
much struck by the name and by his resemblance
to some of our family that I never
rested till I had unearthed the whole story.
Although Sir Charles's nephew was by that

time under sentence of penal servitude for
life, I could not induce Sir James to come
forward and present himself to his father ; it
was only when I had thought of pressing upon
him the disadvantage under which his sister
was placed by his silence that he permitted
me to break the tidings to Sir Charles. You
all know the violent effect the announcement
that he was the father of two children, both
of whom were alive, had upon him. I introduced
my friend as the doctor, to prevent
any disturbance on the part of Sir Charles's
relatives." Elizabeth's lips tightened. " Sir
Charles acknowledged him as his son in a
will which has been kept concealed until this
moment by Sir James who, on the sudden
appearance of his cousin escaped from prison,,
refused to take his rightful place as his father's
heir while the man who had always held that
position might still claim it."

Lindley produced the will which, he said,
Sir Charles had made on the night of his
death, in favour of his son by his wife
Kathleen. It was in Lindley's own handwriting,
was duly signed in a feeble, scrawling

hand by Sir Charles himself, and the signatures
of Mrs. Symes and of the butler as witnesses
followed.

Captain Morrison listened to the story with
grave attention, examined the will, the certificates,
and certain letters which LIndley
produced at different points in support of his
statements, and said at last 

I think your case Is perfectly clear, and
I acknowledge that, through a member of my
household, I was not altogether unprepared
for this strange revelation. Of course Mr.
Massey must be summoned over here "

I have already written to him," interrupted
LIndley.

'' And no doubt. Sir James, you will have
no difficulty In calling witnesses to prove your
identity ? "

None at all, Captain Morrison. My aunt
and her husband are both alive, and, though
my mother died some years ago, the farmer
for whom she deserted my father Is alive, and
can give you all the details any one can
want."

And for your later life. I suppose, there

would be no difficulty in continuing the chain
of evidence in your favour ? "

None at all, I assure you." " Not the
least," chimed in both claimant and supporter
together. '

Then I can only say that the one thing
in the whole story which remains astonishing
is the disinterestedness which kept you silent
so long, Sir James, in the interest of a murderer,
an escaped convict, a heartless and 
brutal  seducer ! "

For the first time, his hard, dry manner
changed, and his voice faltered. Sir James
bowed slightly, but seemed rather uneasy ;
Lindley's eyes roved restlessly from his friend
to the speaker and back again ; Elizabeth sat
upright, but was cowed and silent; Geraldine
drew a sharp breath of pain as her husband
uttered the last words, but kept her eyes
fixed upon him with an intent look of inquiry
which was not without a suggestion of feverish
trust in him.

It is a most singular and awful stroke of
what people call the irony of fate that this undeserving
wretch should have gone to his grave

without knowing  I won't say appreciating, for
that would have been beyond him  the noble
sacrifice you made for him, Sir James."

'' Indeed, you are right, Captain Morrison ;
no one deplores his death so much as I do,"
said the new Sir James composedly, while
Lindley evidently grew more restless and
Geraldine more excited. '' But you overrate
my sacrifice as much as you underrate my unlucky
namesake's good qualities. I had a position
of my own ; at least, I was rapidly making one,
while poor James was too weak to have carved
one out for himself, if he had been deprived of
that one to which he believed himself born."

Lindley recovered his self-possession as he
noted his companion's composure in face of
Captain Morrison's strangely grave and monotonous
manner, which, to his experienced eyes,
suggested danger.

Perhaps you are right, Sir James ; he lived
for some time under your care, and you had
more opportunities of studying both his character
and his constitution than I have had."

Lindley turned pale, and his hands began
to twitch and to tremble ; the new Sir James

remained perfectly calm ; both the ladles kept
still as statues under the strongest efforts of
self-control.

I must repeat once more, Sir James," continued
Captain Morrison, whose speech grew
slower and more deliberate every minute, " that
had the story of your noble and disinterested
conduct remained unsupported, it would have
appeared scarcely credible ; but, in order that
for once poetical justice should be awarded to
an heroic act, Heaven has raised up a witness
to the truth of your story whom no one will dare
to doubt. James Otway," he called, raising his
voice a little, 'come forward and give your
benefactor the thanks which are his due ! "

Captain Morrison fixed his eyes upon the
screen thrust back into the corner of the room ;
the last words were scarcely out of his mouth
when every one turned instinctively, as they
heard a sound behind them. A moment later,
pale, shaking from head to foot, and looking, ashe
stumbled nervously forward into the room,
the guiltiest wretch that ever skulked about the
earth, James Otway appeared before them.

Lindley leapt to his feet, with a hoarse cry ;
VOL. in. 58

06 A DOG WITH A BAD NAME.

Elizabeth burst Into tears ; Geraldine sprang
forward and sank down beside her husband's
couch ; of all the four people whom this apparition
surprised, only the new claimant to the
title retained his self-possession. He grew
white, his eyes travelled stealthily from door to
window ; but neither passage was free ; and he
turned towards the new-comer and looked at
him defiantly.

*' Do you mean to deny," he began coolly,
'' that I am Sir Charles's legitimate son, and
consequently the lawful possessor of the title ? "

No," answered James, who could not face
him, but stood nervously shifting his hands and
his feet, and glancing restlessly about him, " I
  I don't deny it. I only deny that I ever
committed a murder or betrayed another man's
wife  and  God forgive you for  for all you
have made me suffer ! "

He sank down Into the nearest chair,
utterly overcome, and, turning his head away,
let it rest upon his hands, unable to bear the
sight of the friend he had trusted almost to the
death, after the sickening disclosures the last
two days had made concerning him.

'' I really don't understand all this ; It is a lot
of infernal nonsense ! " cried the new Sir James,
rising coolly. " Perhaps an interview with a
lawyer and another with a couple of policemen
will bring the snivelling idiot to reason. In
the mean time, we are intruding upon you to
no purpose, Captain Morrison, and we will not
further trespass upon you until I am able to
prove, with the aid of Mr. Massey and my
other witnesses, the truth of the statements I
have made to-day."

I want no further proof, I assure you," said
Captain Morrison, whose eyes had lost their
hard look for a moment as they fell upon his
wife crouching beside the sofa on which he lay.
'' But I have something to say to you privately ;
and, If you can spare me a few moments, I
promise not to detain you longer." Geraldine
looked up in alarm. '' Mr. Fielding, I am sorry
your visit should have been spoilt by this
unpleasant scene. Geraldine, you will do your
best to entertain your cousin and Mr. Fielding,
while Sir James and I have a few minutes'
conversation ; Miss Otway will help you, I am
.sure."

Geraldlne rose obediently from her knees,
and, with one faltering, imploring look at her
husband, submissively left the room with the
others, leaving Captain Morrison alone with
the new claimant to the title of Sir James
Otway. No sooner was the door closed than
the latter turned defiantly towards the little
man on the sofa.

You doubt my claim, then ? I tell you I
can prove it," he began, in a blustering tone.

I do not doubt your claim. I believe  I
may say I know, that without some strong
support of that kind, neither you nor your tutor
would have had the pluck to carry through
your impudent imposture."

Imposture ! What do you mean ? I tell
you I am Sir Charles's legitimate son "

'' Of which fact you were ignorant until
your present more cunning and more intelligent
associate, scenting a chance of plunder, went to
Ireland to see the James Otway imprisoned on
a charge of murder, discovered you"  the
other, moved at last, changed colour  '' passed
you off upon Massey, the lawyer, as your
cousin, and bided his time. That time came

when you escaped from prison. The other
James Otway hand been lost sight of ; Lindley
believed he would never return to England ;
your way seemed clear. Then came your
attempts to murder the man who stood in your
way, by poison and by bullet ; your efforts to
inflame my mind against him by rousing my
jealousy as a husband, and by imputing to him
the very crime of which I have called you hereto
accuse you. I don't know how far your
venomous suggestions might have led me if my
wife's frightened half-confidences, and the bold
appearance of her cousin, James Otway, had
not woke suspicion enough in me to send me
to Enfield, where I learnt from my sister's lips
that it was you for whom she was mad enough
to leave her husband ; that you wearied in a
few weeks of the well-bred woman your coarse
nature could not appreciate ; that, seeing this,
and being too proud to confess that she was
not your wife, she got your namesake, whom
she knew only as a frequent visitor of yours
under the name of Hammond, to see her off
to Enfield, where she lived with an old
governess of hers until I found her out. On my

return from Enfield I went straight to Corby n's
farm, with the intention of going into an explanation
with the one James Otway whom I had
been pursuing for the crimes of the other.
While I was waiting for him, sitting with my
back to the open window in his sitting-room, In
the twilight, I was shot from behind  in mistake
no doubt for James Otway  by you." And
Captain Morrison turned and looked straight intO'
the face of the unabashed " Doctor Ledbury."
Then he continued : "When the cry I uttered
had brought in Mrs. Corby n and her husband
from the kitchen, and James Otway from the
field behind the house, through which he had
been slowly returning home, I had had time
to decide upon a plan to clear up the mystery.
I saw that the death of the innocent James
Otway would be the signal for the guilty one
to come forward with his crimes buried in the
grave of his namesake. So I persuaded the
uninjured James to remain closely hidden at
the farm, proclaimed his death, and I even
played the cruel trick of passing him off living
for dead to his adopted sister  my wife, in
order that her evidence might satisfy both you

and Mr. Fielding, your accomplice. My

trick succeeded perfectly, as I think, 'Doctor

Ledbury,' that you will admit. And now I

have another matter to discuss with you.

Your murder, your lies, your fresh attempts

at murder, do not concern me, they concern

the detective who has been on your track

since you left this house yesterday morning,

and who is now waiting outside with a cordon

of police to arrest you and restore you to the

seclusion you left so abruptly eight months

ago." Sir James started up from the chair in

which he had defiantly placed himself at the

beginning of this speech, and showed his

gleaming white teeth in a savage gaze at his

accuser, who continued quietly  '' As I said

before, these trifling errors don't concern me.

But you are a versatile ruffian. In the interval

between escaping from prison and ousting your

cousin from the inheritance your crime had

forfeited, you filled up your time by making

love to a married woman, and persuading her

to elope with you ; you took her abroad with

you," continued Captain Morrison, his voice

shaking in spite of himself, " passing yourself

off as Sir James Otway ; and on your return
to England you deserted her, and left It to
your other victim, the man you are trying to
make away with, to see her safely to a place of
seclusion."

So that is your version of his share In the
matter," sneered the other significantly.

Yes. I had It from my sister's own lips
the night before last. James Otway believed
her to be your wife, for she was too proud to
betray you. Now I have sworn to avenge my
sister ; so this does concern me. If I had met
you, knowing what I now do, anywhere but
under my own roof, I would have shot you
dead like a dog. As It Is, you are a condemned
man ; the police are waiting for you to leave
this house to re-arrest you ; so that I cannot
take advantage of you now. But I will show
you a way of escape, that you may evade them
and get away safely  for the present ; for I will
track you down again. If I have to follow you
round the world, and, when I next meet you, I
will show you no mercy."

'' Thanks. Then perhaps you will be so
good as to fulfil the first part of your offer at

'once ; and, as for your kind promise to scalp
me afterwards, why I'll take my chance of that."

'' Go up to the top of the house and get outby
the ladder on to the roof. I will have you
brought down and let out as soon as it is safe."

'* Thanks. Perhaps you won't mind paying
beforehand for the exciting little chase of me
you have promised yourself, by lending me a
couple of sovereigns to help me get a fair start."

He was Impudently cool as ever as he
crossed the room towards the sofa, to take the
money Captain Morrison held out to him. He
put out his left hand to receive It, at the same
moment that with his right he drew out a
revolver, and pointed it with the muzzle a
couple of feet from the captain's breast. But
the soldier was quick of eye and sure of hand.
Springing from the sofa, he seized the hand that
held the revolver in both his, and forced it up
at the very moment that the weapon went off.
The assailant staggered, and fell to the ground
without a groan or a cry, shot through the
head.

Captain Morrison, drawn down by the fall
of the dead man, rose with difficulty and groped

his way with slow steps to the bell ; but before
he touched the handle the door opened, and
James Otway came in. He had remained
within hearing, having reason to mistrust his
namesake's loyalty.

Captain Morrison, he has hurt you ! I

knew " he began, and then stopped short,

horror-struck at the sight of the dead man on
the floor at his feet.

"It was  an accident ! " gasped the other,
in a weak, hoarse voice, as he reeled against an
armchair, and James helped him to place himself
in it. "The sight makes me sick. Will you
send Johnson to take  him away  upstairs 
to his father's room ? Don't let my wife know
anything  yet."

A few minutes later, the three ladles and
LIndley, who were in the drawing-room
together, heard sounds In the hall and low
voices, which alarmed them. Geraldine started
up and rushed to the door ; but it had been
locked on the outside. She could hear the
sounds proceeding through the hall and up the
staircase, and she recognized them as of the same
kind as those she had heard the nicrht before,

when her husband was brought home. Without
uttering a cry, she ran across the room to
the French window, opened it, and hurried to
the nearest of the two Library windows. Her
husband was leaning back in the armchair by
the fireplace, and Johnson was by his side.
She tapped sharply on the glass, and the butler,
at a gesture from his master, crossed the room,
opened the window, and then left the library.

But the expression on her husband's face
did not change as Geraldine hurried towards
him and knelt down by his side. He still
stared in front of him with dull, glassy eyes,
and said, without looking at her, as her hands
softly touched his arm 

Why have you come ? You should not
have come till you were sent for. You have
to hear something which will make you shudder
and shrink from me ; I have sent some one to
break it to you ; now you force me to tell it
myself."

'' Nothing will make me shrink from you
now, Philip," she whispered timidly, as her
clasp tightened on his arm.

He laughed harshly.

1 6 A DOG WITH A BAD NAME.

"Wait till you hear what I have done. I
have killed James Otway."

As he had expected, there was only one
James Otway for her. She shuddered from
head to foot ; but her fingers, though they
trembled on his arm, did not relax their clasp.

Well ? " said he harshly.

"Well ? " she echoed faintly.

Have you forgotten the devotion for him
you were always flinging in my face, your
threats and bitter words and curses upon me if
I should dare touch a hair of his head ? "

'' Philip, Philip, I am sorry  you must
forget them ! You are hiding something from
me  you did not mean to do it  I am sure of
it. I have learnt to trust you ; trust me too,
and tell me what you mean."

But at first he tried to speak and could not ;
she felt that he was trembling violently, and
she saw the old fire rekindle in his eyes. After
a minute s silence, he said 

You are right ; it was an accident. But
I cannot prove it. We were alone together ;
and I shall have to fly from the police."

'will you .> When?"

OV

To-day. Now."

'' Where shall we go ? " she whispered, starting
to her feet.

' We ' go ! " he echoed, with a flame springing
up in his dark eyes.

Yes, yes, I will go with you, of course ;
and I will nurse you and devote myself to you,
and try to make you forget," said she hurriedly.

Do you mean it ? " he asked, looking
steadily up into her face.

Before God I do."

Then go ; we have no time to lose. Get
ready for the journey as quickly as you can,
and come back here to fetch me."

'' Yes ; and I will order the carriage."

'' Touch the bell ; I will see to that. Go ;
make haste."

He had grown feverishly impatient ; but, as
she left him, he suddenly stretched out his arms
as if to detain her. But she was hurrying to
the door and did not see him, and he checked
the impulse, and sank back again in his chair.

Ten minutes later, Geraldine came back in
her travelling-dress, and found her husband in
the position in which she had left him. His

eyes were closed, and he lifted his head heavily
as she slipped on to her knees in front of him,
and put her hands on his shoulders to rouse
him.

'' Philip," she whispered  " Philip ! Wake
up, we must be going, dear."

'' Yes," said he faintly, " we must be going."

"The carriage is round, Philip  wake up,
my poor boy, you will soon be all right when
you get away from here."

"Yes, yes," he whispered dreamily ; " I shall
be all right then."

Shall I call Johnson to help you up ? Weare
wasting time, and "

No, Geraldine ; I want no help to start on
the journey I am going, and no company. I
must go alone."

She looked into his face and understood
him. With a low cry, she clung closer to him,
sobbing and shuddering.

Geraldine ! My wife ! Are you sorry ?
Thank God ! "

He put his arms round her, and dropped
his head on her shoulder.

Geraldine, I swore you should be happy,

and you will. It is not your old companion
James who Is dead, but your worthless brother,
whom you have known as Doctor Ledbury."

"What do I care ? What do I care who is
alive or who Is dead. If you  oh, Philip, it can't
be true ! You are 111, but not  not dying !
Why should you die ? Nobody dies of a
sprain ! "

'' No ; but a man may die of a bullet
through him. The man Otway, who is now
dead, shot me through the back as I sat in the
sitting-room at the farm yesterday, mistaking
me for James, whom I was waiting for. Half
an hour ago he tried to shoot me again  in my
proper person this time. I threw up his hand,
.and the bullet passed through his head ; but
the tussle has set my wound bleeding, and I
am done for this time. I don't mind, now I
know you will be sorry. Kiss me, Geraldine."

She pressed her lips to his with quivering
.passion, which roused him completely from the
heavy torpor into which he had been sinking,
and set his pulses beating for a few moments
\AvIth their old strength.

Ah, my wife, my darling, you are giving

me back my life again ! " he whispered, as he
held her face between his hands and gazed into
her eyes. *' You couldn't love me while I lived
I was too harsh, too bad-tempered ; but now
you are giving me a taste of Heaven. God I
to feel your lips warm at last ! Kiss me again,
again. Hold me closer  speak to me  I am,
losing you. Ah, it's  all  over ! "

The last word was formed with his lips,,
but not uttered, for speech had left him ; and
the next moment, with one long, struggling,,
gasping breath, he lay dead in her arms.
*****
Warlngham Hall sank into its old gloom
on the day when its master and its guilty heir
died within its walls. Lindley Fielding was
too much overcome by the horrible end of his
accomplice to make any attempt at flight ; and,
upon a promise of pardon, freely offered by the
man he had done so much to injure, he confessed
that, upon discovering that the James
Otway imprisoned for murder was Sir Charles's,
legitimate son, he had formed a plot with him
to trade upon that fact. It was he who had
suggested the device by which the bad James

Otway, by hiding his face as If in shame on the
occasion of Mr. Massey's visiting him in prison,
had passed himself off as his innocent namesake
on the old lawyer. He had then tracked
the innocent James Otway to the Cape of Good
Hope, where he was living under the name of
Harry Hammond, having resolved never to
return to his unsympathetic family. The
reason of Sir Charles's constant aversion to the
boy was alleged by Mr. Massey to have been
the open satisfaction shown by his father. Sir
Charles's brother, at the loss of the peasant-wife
Kathleen, whose story had come to his ears.
The innocent young James Otway had
married a pretty young English girl of volatile
manners, who had come out to the Cape as a
governess. Lindley fell In love with her, and,
when he found that her husband, though weak
and easily led, had ideas of honour which forbade
the hope of making a bargain with him
for information concerning a nearer heir to the
title, he induced the flighty little creature to
run away with him. It was while smarting
under the loss of his wife, of whom he was
then passionately fond, that James had met
VOL. 1:1. 59

Lindley on his unexpected return to the Hall
on the night of his uncle's death. After that
event, James had again gone out to the Cape,
under the advice of his treacherous namesake,
who wished to get him out of the way. He
there discovered that the girl he had married,
young as she was, had already been the wife
of another man at the time ; he learnt later
that, this first husband being now dead, Lindley
had married her on his return to England.

Lindley disclaimed all participation in his
accomplice's attempts to murder James. And,
as the latter was inclined to believe him on
this point, the unlucky conspirator received
forgiveness and a small sum of money to help
him back to the Cape with his wife, with an
intimation that his reappearance on the shores
of his native land would be ill-received.

James's innocence being now clearly established,
he had no difficulty in obtaining undisputed
possession of the Waringham estate ; but
the Hall, now inhabited solely by his two old
aunts, the younger of whom had sunk suddenly
into crestfallen insignificance, owing to her
share in the late conspiracy, from which she

had always been trying to obtain some advantage,
had few charms for him. And during the
year following Captain Morrison's death, which
Geraldine spent in complete seclusion with
some relatives of her late husband's, James
went abroad, and few tidings of him reached
his friends in England.

Geraldine visited Waringham every month,
to stand by her husband's grave, to pay dreary
penitential calls upon her two old aunts, and
to see the poor old housekeeper, who was now
sinking rapidly into childishness. It was early
in the New Year, some thirteen months after
Captain Morrison's death, that on one of
these periodical visits Reginald Bamber again
proposed to her. She received this second
offer from him more gently than she had done
the first ; but her answer was the same 
indeed, she was rather shocked by it, and
expressed a conviction that it was not right
for a widow to marry again.

She was extremely sorry to have to wound
his feelings, after such a display of constancy ;
but when, on her next visit to Waringham,
a month afterwards, she learned that he wa

engaged to the wealthy but plain daughter
of a retired tea-merchant who had taken
Admiral Stanhope's house for the summer,
she could not help a slight feeling of disappointment
and mortification. But Elizabeth
told her he had had, six weeks ago, an
opportunity of a brilliant opening in Boston
which demanded capital to start with, and
expressed her opinion that the young man's
choice was a very sensible one. Geraldine
agreed, but was wounded again.

"Six weeks ago!" she thought to herself;
*' and it is nearly five weeks since he proposed
to me."

She had been left by her husband very
well off; but she could not compete in point
of wealth with the tea-merchant's daughter ;
therefore she ought to have felt flattered that
a man in every way so estimable as Reginald
Bamber should have given her the preference.

'' I suppose you have heard that James
has come back," continued Elizabeth.

'' No, I had not. When did he come ? "
asked Geraldine, without showing any particular
interest.

Only last night, and he went away again
this morning. I told him you were coming
to-day ; but he said he didn't suppose you
had any wish to see him, and he had business
in town."

'' Very civil of him, certainly ! I daresay
widows are not lively enough society
for him.'

When she rose to take leave, she
remembered that she had not paid her usual
visit to the conservatory, where her old friends
the flowers were not quite so carefully tended
as during her reign at Waringham. She
went by herself, for Elizabeth, who had aged
lately, was now as much averse to exertion
as her sister. Geraldine stopped short on
the threshold, for in her old American chair
sat James Otway. He jumped up and shook
hands with her cheerfully.

'how are you ? So glad to see you !
Thought I should be back in time to say
How do you do ? ' before you went."

I'm very glad to see you. I hear you
only arrived last night. Where did you come
from."

26 A DOG WITH A BAD NAME.

'* From Paris last. It's very cold there 
awfully cold, in fact."

"Is it really ? What sort of passage did
you have ? "

*' Oh, beastly. I sat on the upper deck
with my back to the funnel, scorched on one
side, and frozen on the other ! "

They both laughed constrainedly, and
Geraldine turned back towards the diningroom,
expecting him to take the natural course
of accompanying her to the entrance. But he
did nothing of the kind ; she heard that he
was not following her, and was indignant at
this strange lack of courtesy. At last, most
unwillingly, she looked round when she was
half across the room, and saw that his hands
were pressed tightly in each other, and that
he was watching her with an expression which
moved her out of her composure. She came
slowly back to the conservatory door, and,
offering her hand, said 

Good-bye ! "

But he sprang forward and held her fast,
with his arm round her waist.

'' No, no, Deldee ; don't say that, for

Heaven's sake, don't ! I love you so. Don't
you care a bit about me ? "

James, James, how can you ask me ?
Don't you know  don't you know ? I don't
remember the time, since I first went to
Havre, when I have not thought more about
you than about any one in the world. Heaven
forgive me, James ; I have loved you more
than I ought ! "

'' And you will be my wife, Deldee, as you
promised more than twenty years ago ? "

'' Yes."

And so, twenty-one years after his first
proposal, James Otway gained the wife whom
he had carried off to Waringham, as a little
abandoned waif of three years old ; and the
Deldee who cheered his boyhood and rescued
him from the dangers of his manhood is his
good fairy still.

They live at Waringham, and they are
very happy, as people should be who have
gained their heart's strongest desire. But
sometimes, now that the storms of anxiety for
the man she loves have been succeeded by
the calm of peaceful life with him, thoughts

of fiery Philip Morrison, with his passions and
his prejudices, his sullen voice and his wistful
eyes, crowd into Geraldine's mind with new
significance. She has been true, with consistency
beyond the reach of softer, weaker
women, to the one love of her life ; and all
which that love could give her is hers. Buta
dim question rises in her mind with the
memory of Philip : she is wise enough not
to try to answer it ; it is better for her not
to think that the love to which she shut her
heart was the best, and that the deepest tenderness
she was ever to inspire was that which
burned in the dark eyes of the dead man
whose yearning gaze will never meet her own
again.

