CHAPTER I.

PAGE

A Cold Welcome "  1

CHAPTER II.
A Haunted Room . . . .22

X

, CHAPTER III.

A Mysterious Friend 44

J CHAPTER IV.

The Mysterious Friend Reveals Himself . 67

' CHAPTER V.

A Startling Charge . . . . . . .88

V CHAPTER VI.

>; An Objectionable Visitor IK)

CHAPTER VII.
St. Cuthbert's Churchyard 132

PAGE

CHAPTER VII I.
A Half-heard Secret 154

CHAPTER IX.
Mrs. Denison at Home . . .    175

CHAPTER X.
The "Fighting Parson" 199

Chapter I.

A COLD WELCOME.

EisHTON Hall Farm was let at last. Lord
Stannington had had it on his hands a longtime,
and had offered it at a lower and ever
lower rent. It was an open secret that John
Oldshaw, who had a long lease of Tower
Eishton Farm at the other end of the village,
had expected the Eishton Hall lease to
drop into his hands at last for a very trifling
rent indeed. He was a careful man ; the property
under his hands throve ; and he was fond
of saying that his lordship would make a better
bargain by letting him have the land at 10 an
acre than by letting another man have it at
15. However, Lord Stannington had apparently
thought otherwise ; at any rate, when

a stranger appeared upon the scene and offered
him a fair rent for the land without any haggling,
they came to terms without delay, and
John Oldshaw found that his hoped-for bargain
had escaped him.

This West Ending farmer was not a nice person
to deal with when he was disappointed. He
drove over to Sheffield to the agent's office, and
stamped into that gentleman's presence, his
square heavy face purple with ill-suppressed
rage.

*' Na then, Mester Garrett, be pleased to
tell mal if yond's true as Ah hear, that
Eishton Hall Farm's let to a stranger?" he
bellowed, thumping the table with his broad
fist, and glaring at the agent with the unreasoning
fierceness of an angry bull.

Mr. Garrett was a slight fair man, of uncertain
age, whose light eyes were accustomed,
by long practice, to read men pretty accurately.

Quite true, Mr. Oldshaw," he answered,
civilly, with imperturbable coolness. *rit was
let a fortnight ago ; and the new tenant comes

in  let me see  " referring to this papers  "on
the 16tli; this day week, in fact."

And dost tha' know, Mester Garrett, that
Ah've had ma mahnd set on Eishton Hall Farm
for this twelve month and moore ? "

*' How could we know it, Mr. Oldshaw, since
the farm 's been in the market more than twice
that time, and we have never had any intimation
from you of a wish for it ? "

We Yarkshiremen don't do things in a
hurry. But every mon in t' village gnawed
Ah'd set ma heart on t' farm, and noo Ahem
to be t' laughing-stock o' a t' feels i' t' country,
and Eishton Tarn let over ma head to a
stranger as nobody's ever heard on ! ''

And the farmer gave an apoplectic snort of
malignant anger.

Oh, but that is not the case, Mr. Old-shaw,"
said the agent, as quietly as ever; "Mr.
Denison, the gentleman who has taken the farm,
is a friend of friends of his lordship, and in every
wa'' a tenant of the most desirable kind."

John Oldshaw calmed down suddenly, and
B 2

into his small blood-shot blue eyes there came
a satisfied twinkle.

A gentleman, d'ye say. A gentleman's got
t' farm ! " in a tone of the deepest contempt.
Thank ye, Mester Garret, Ah'm quite satisfied.
It's not for me to grumble at his lordship, then.
Ah can pity him. The' never was t' gentleman
born who could do any good at farming, and if
a gentleman born's got Eishton Hall Farm, all
t' ill I wish his lordship is  may t' gentleman
born stick to 's bargain."

And with these words, uttered in a tone of
fierce triumph, the farmer, who had not removed
his hat on entering the office, turned and stalked
out with every appearance of enjoying, as he
had intimated, a complete revenge.

The village of Eishton boasted two inns,
both of the most unpretending kind. The
larger and more important of these was the
Chequers, a stone building of the simplest kind
of architecture, to which were attached numerous
small outbuildings, forming three sides of a
quadrangle for Mr. Tew's gig and Mrs. Stew's

hens. The Chequers stood just outside the gate
of Eishton Hall Farm, and its windows commanded
the approach from Matherham, the
nearest market town, which was three miles
away. On the 16th of January, the day of
the expected arrival of the new tenant of
Bishton Hall, John Oldshaw took up his stand
at one of the inn windows, watching with
malevolent eyes for the approach of his rival.
It was a bitterly cold day, grey overhead and
black under foot ; and the frost, which had held
for three days, was growing harder as the afternoon
wore on. John Oldshaw, with a sense of
keen disappointment, had at last to acquiesce in
the general belief that the new tenant would not
come to-day.

If he's coom as far as Matherham he'll
stop there t' night, Mester Oldshaw," said Stew,
the landlord, a small man, ruled by his wife.
T' ground's too slippy for e'er a horse to stand
on, letting' alone t' road's all hill and dale 'tween
this and Matherham. Besides, t' awd house is
as bare as a barn ; he'd never coom till he'd sent

some stuff to put in it, and a couple o' servants
to set it to rights a bit."

Well, it aunt ma way o' coin' things, to
name one day for coomin' and then to coom
another," said Oldshaw, contemptuously. " But,
then, Ah'm naw gentleman, and my lord Stannington
'11 mighty soon wish as he could say
same o' t' new tenant, Mester Stew."

Mr. Tew could not afford to have an independent
opinion in the presence of the great man
of the village, with that miserable Cock and
Bottle, not five hundred yards away, gaping for
first place as the hostelry of the elite,

"It's ta mooch to expect to get another
tenant like you, Mester Oldshaw,'' he said, discreetly.


It was by this time nearly four o'clock, and
the grey dawn was already beginning to darken
towards a black evening when Mat Oldshaw, the
farmer's eldest son, who had been sent by his
father to the top of the hill on the look-out, reentered
the inn at a pace somewhat faster than
his usual shambling gait. He was a tall, round-shouldered

lad of about twenty, with fair hair
and a weather-tanned face, whose heavy dulness
was for the moment lightened by a passing
gleam of great excitement.

Weel, Mat, hast seen a ghost? " asked his
father.

Naw, feather ; but there's a cab coomin'
down t' hill "

So Mester Gentleman's coom, has he ? "
shouted the farmer, triumphantly; and he had
seized his stout ash stick, and was making with
ponderous strides for the door, as if with the intention
of inflicting bodily chastisement on the
insolent new-comer, when his son interposed,
blushing a deep brick-red to the roots of his
hair.

*' Eh, but feather," he stammered, turning
the door handle uneasily, and dividing his
glances between the floor, the window, and his
father's boorish face, " it's na t' gentleman ; it's
nobbut two lasses."

After which admission, he fell to blushing
more violently than before.

Two lasses ? " echoed Oldshaw, incredulously.


Hey, feather. An' one o' them's got a
face lik' a rose."

Peace lik' a rose ? " thundered the farmer.
'' Don't thee daze tha dull wits lookin' at
wenches' faces, for Ah tell tha Ah'U have na
son o' mine hanging' about t' Hall noose

hasn't na lass for t' likes o' mea,
feather; yon lass is a leady," said the lad,
simply.

If the stranger's fair face had not, as his
father suggested, dazed his dull wits already,
the young man would surely have had the tact
to restrain these rash words, which fanned the
flame of his father's coarse malevolence.

A leady ! A fine leady ! ta fine fur
any son o' mine ? Ah tell thee, feel, t' day '11
coom when tha fine leady '11 wish she wur
good enough for t' likes o' thee ; and good
enough she shall never be  tha hears ? "

Though the young man's head was bent ina
listening attitude, and he assented in the

meekest of gruff voices, the father guessed that
this deep attention was not all for his discourse,
when the sound of hoofs and wheels on the hard
ground outside attracted him to the outer door,
which he reached in time to see a luggage-laden
cab slowly descend the hill and pass the inn-door,
giving time for a look at the two young
faces inside. Mistress and maid evidently ; both
bright, eager, and rather anxious. The former
met full the surly stare of the farmer, and she
drew back her head as if a blast of chilling wind
had met her on her approach to her new home.
The little maid, who had rosy cheeks and what
one may call retrousse features, was less sensitive,
and she looked out to resent this cold unwelcome
with a contemptuous toss of the head.

They're regular savages in these parts, Miss
Olivia," she said, in a slightly-raised tone. '* I
only hope we may be uneaten by the time the
master comes ! "

The cab had passed the front of the inn,
and was rounding the sharp turn which led up
a slight ascent through the open farmyard gate,

when suddenly, without any warning except a
few rough jolts over the uneven ground, it
turned over on its side, to the accompaniment
of shrill screams from one female throat, and
a less loud but more plaintive cry from the other.
Mat Oldshaw, who was standing on the inn
doorstep behind his father, made a spring forward
to help them. But the elder man, with a
movement quicker than one would have expected
from his clumsy form and ponderous
gait, grasped his arm with a violence which
made the lad reel, and giving him a push back
against the wall of the house, said, in a low,
thick voice 

Don't too meddle with what don't concern
thee. Cheer there's so mooch cry, there
aren't mooch hurt, tak' ma word foret."

'* Feather ! " said Mat, indignantly, entreatingly.
Then he was dumb, for even through
his not over-bright brains came a suspicion that
this accident was perhaps not wholly unexpected
by one of its witnesses.

As this brief scene passed between father and

son, a man in a short frieze coat, knickerbockers,
gaiters, and deer-stalker cap, who had quickened
his pace down the hill into a run on seeing the
accident, looked full into the faces of both men
with a keen, shrewd expression, as he dashed by.

"It's parson Brander, o' S' Cuthbert's, feather.
He heard thee," said the young man ina
husky, awed whisper.

An' wha not ? Ah'd like to see sik as
him say a word to me ! " said the farmer, in a
loud voice of boastful contempt.

And the attitudes respectively of father and
son, the one of contemptuous disgust, the other
of awestruck respect, represented the two views
most commonly taken in the country side of
the Reverend Vernon Brander, vicar of Saint
Cuthbert's.

Before the last disdainful word was out of
John Oldshaw's mouth the new comer had
opened the cab door, and extricated the two
girls from their unpleasant position. The maid
was uppermost, but she was a little creature, and
had probably inflicted far less inconvenience on

her more massively built mistress than that
young lady would have inflicted on her had
their positions been reversed. Her rosy cheeks
had lost their colour, and from her forehead,
which had been cut by the broken glass of the
carriage window, blood was trickling down.

In answer to the gentleman's inquiries as to
whether she was hurt, she said in a trembling
voice that she didn't know yet, and begged him
to get her mistress out. This he at once proceeded
to do, and was rewarded by the thanks of
a young lady whom he at once decided to be one
of the handsomest girls that this or any other
country ever produced.

Olivia Denison was indeed an unchallenged
beauty, and had occupied that proud position
almost ever since, twenty years ago, she had
been pronounced to be "a lovely baby." She
was tall  of that cruel height which forces short
admirers, on pain of looking ridiculous, to keep
their distance ; of figure rather massive than
slender, with a fair skin, a fresh colour, dark
hair, blue eyes, and a winning expression of

energy and honesty wliicli gave to the whole
face its greatest charm. For the moment, however,
the rose colour had left her cheeks too, and
her lips were drawn tightly together.

You are hurt, I am afraid," said the
stranger, with concern.

I've only  pinched  my finger," she answered,
trying to laugh.

But the effort of speaking brought the tears
to her eyes, much to her indignation. For she
was brave, and she liked to have the credit of
it.

Let me see," said he, with kindly authority.

She presented her right hand, from which he
drew the glove very gently, disclosing bruised
and slightly discoloured finger-tips.

They do hurt a little, but it's nothing
very dreadful. I don't know how I did it,"
she said.

Lucky it's no worse," said the stranger,
kindly. " Now for the lad."

The young driver was looking ruefully at the
overturned vehicle. He proved to have escaped

with no worse damage than a battered hat.
Lucy, the maid, who had ascertained that her
head was still on her shoulders, had bound up
her cut forehead with her handkerchief, and was
scolding the driver for his carelessness as she
pointed to the scattered luggage. The traces
having broken as the cab fell, the horse had
sustained very little hurt, so that, on the whole,
the accident had been without tragic consequences.
The rescuer took hold of the girl, and
shook her by the arm.

Now, don't you think, considering all
things, you might find some better use for your
tongue than scolding? You might have been
upset a mile away on the road, instead of which
you are turned out comfortably at your own
door. For, I suppose, you are coming to the
Hall?"

Yes, sir," answered Lucy, abashed, but still
rather mutinous, not having the least idea that
she was speaking to a clergyman.

So that the real sufferer by this spill is
neither you nor your mistress, but the poor lad

who has driven you safely more than three miles
over a very dangerously slippery road, and who
will perhaps get discharged hy his master for
having injured the cab. Your mistress does not
scold you for half an hour if you break a
plate."

Yes, she does, sir," fired up Lucy, so unexpectedly
that Mr. Brander involuntarily
glanced with surprise at the young lady. " Oh,
not Miss Olivia," added the little maid almost
indignantly ; " it's Mrs. Denison I mean."

Well, then, if sou find the habit so unamiable
in Mrs. Denison, as I see you do, you
should take the greatest care not to fall into it
yourself," said the vicar, suppressing a smile.

Then he turned again to the lady.

Is everything ready for your coming ? " he
asked, doubtfully.

For he had passed the house that morning,
and found it deserted, mildewed, and shattered
as usual.

No, nothing," said the girl. " We've come
on in advance to prepare things for papa and

mamma and the rest," she added rather tremulously.


The frightful immensity of the undertaking
perhaps struck her now for the first
time, as she stood, still shaking from the shock of
the accident, staring at the smokeless chimneys
and shuttered windows of the new home. Mr.
Brander looked from one girl to the other, very
sorry for both, wondering what kind of idiots
the parents could be to send two inexperienced
young lasses to grapple with all the difficulties
of installation.

And the furniture ? I suppose that has
come ? " he suggested, dubiously.

Oh, I hope so," said the girl, anxiously.

I'll ask at the inn here. If it has come
they will have seen it pass. And Mrs. Tew will
give you both a cup of tea. You don't mind
going into an inn, do you ? It's a very respectable
place."

Oh no ; of course we don't," said Miss
Denison. " Indeed, it is very, very kind of you
to take so much trouble for us."

Trouble ! Nonsense. It's a splendid excitement.
As far as I am concerned I should
like a pair of travellers overturned here once a
week."

He beckoned to Lucy, and led them the few
steps back to the inn door. John Oldshaw was
still standing in a defiant attitude on the doorstep,
whence he had watched the proceedings
with malicious interest. His son was still peeping
out, sheepish and ashamed, from behind him.

Here, Mat, will you run round to Mrs.
Wall's  tell her that Miss Denison has come,
and ask for the key of the Hall," said he.
And then you might lend me a hand to take
some of the lady's trunks into the house."

Mat's face brightened and flushed.

All right, sir," he said, and tried to push
past his father.

But the elder man blocked the doorway with
his arms, and stood like a rock.

Nay," he said, obstinately ; '' Mat doesna'
stir at tha' bidding. Help t' wenches tinsel' ;
too's used to 't."

Olivia drew back; lie was shocked, frightened,
by the dogged ferocity of the farmer's face,
and by the sudden expression of some strong
feeling  whether anger or anguish she could
not quite tell  which for a moment convulsed
the features of her unknown companion. As
for Oldshaw's coarse words, the strong Yorkshire
dialect rendered them unintelligible to
her. They, however, roused the spirit of the
phlegmatic Mat.

For shame, feather ! " cried he, in a voice
which was a new terror for the young lady,
whose champion he thus declared himseK to
be. " Mester Brander, Ah'll go like a peace
horse."

And ducking his long body under his,
father's left arm with an unceremonious roughness
which shook that mighty man from his
dignity, he touched his cap to Olivia with oafish
respect, and ran off down the lane past the
Hall barns with the best speed of his long legs.

We won't go in there, thank you very
much," said Olivia, when Mr. Brander had

come back to the spot to which she had retreated.
" I could not pass that man ; I would
rather not go near him."

Will you wait here while I find out about
the furniture, then ? "

Please promise not to quarrel with that
horrid man about his rudeness to us. I can see
he is one of those people who can't help being
rude and horrid, just as some other people can't
help being unselfish and kind," said the girl,
shyly, but with much warmth. " Will you
please promise ? "

Yes," said he, simply, looking into her
face with a grave, straightforward expression of
interest and, as it seemed to her, of gratitude,
which surprised and touched her.

Then he turned without another word,
almost as if afraid to say another word, and
going back rapidly to the inn, passed the farmer,
who sullenly made way for him, and disappeared
into the house. When he came back his face
was full of deep concern of a different kind.

I bring bad news," he said to the girls,
c 'Z

who, mistress and maid, were shrinking together
in their desolation. " I am afraid your furniture
has not come, and  they say they haven't a
room to spare in the inn for to-night. But if
Mrs. Tew could see you and speak to you herself
"

I wouldn't stay in the house," burst out
Olivia, indignantly. *' If we can only get into
the Hall, Lucy and I can manage very well indeed."


"But the place is sure to be hideously damp,
and there are no carpets ; in fact, there's nothing,"
said Mr. Brander, in dismay.

The resources of the feminine mind are
infinite," said Olivia, who was again blinking
behind her veil. " Here comes the old woman
who has the keys, I suppose. I shall get her to
take us in for a little while  at least, she'll have
a cottage and a fire somewhere or other. And
perhaps while we are waiting there the furniture
will come."

Mr. Brander looked at her with renewed
compassion. He thought this last a forlorn hope.

Don't be disappointed if it doesn't come
yet," he said, encouragingly. '' Old Sarah Wall
will do her best for you, I'm sure, and all the
better if she doesn't see me talking to you. For
you won't hear any good of me from her."

And before Olivia could detain him to pour
out again the thanks for his kindness with which
her heart was overflowing, he had raised his hat
with a sudden cold withdrawal into himself, and
turning with the rapidity of the most accomplished
athlete, disappeared along the road
which led through Lower Eishton, leaving her
overwhelmed with surprise at the abrupt change
in his manner, and with desolation at this unexpectedly
sudden loss of their only friend.

A HAUNTED ROOM.

Old Sarah Wall, the key-bearer, who now came
ambling up at a very slow pace, holding her
hand to her side, and muttering feebly as she
moved, was a poor exchange, Olivia thought, for
the masculine friend who had ended his kindly
services so abruptly. He had not even waited,
as he had intimated an intention of doing, to seethe
luggage safely moved into the house. Mrs.
Wall looked very cross, and not too clean.
Scarcely deigning to glance at the strangers, she
muttered, *' This way ! '' and then fell to groaning
as she led the way through the farmyard upto
the house.

Olivia paused to look despairingly at her
scattered trunks, and to give a kindly word of
comfort to the unlucky cabdriver, who was still
occupied in estimating the damage done to his
vehicle, and his chances of getting it back to

Material that night. As she did so she
heard a footstep on the hard ground beside her,
and found the shamefaced and blushing Mat
at her side.

Ah'U get t' luggage in all right, never
fear," said he, in a voice so gruff with excessive
bashfulness that poor Olivia thought him surly,
and shrank back with a cold refusal of his services
rising to her lips.

Mat thought she identified him with his
father, and so hastened to offer a neat apology for
that gentleman's conduct.

Feather 's a pig," said he. " Boot he wun-
na harm ye ; an' Ah'll do what Ah can to mak'
op for him being so rough."

And he shouldered one trunk and caught up
another, and strode along towards the house,
whistling to himself with the defiant carelessness
of one who feels he has done a bold stroke.
The lady and her attendant followed, somewhat
soothed by this little show of friendliness.

Even in the midst of her feelings of desolation
and disappointment, in spite of the keen

cold and of the forlorn, blind look which shuttered
and shut-up windows, broken chimney-pots,
and untrimmed ivy, gave to the house, Olivia
could not look quite without admiration and a
youthful sense of delight in the picturesque at-the
old Hall. The body of the house was a
long, plain, two-storeyed building, with a flagged
roof and a curious vide, flat portico, supported
by two spindle shank wooden pillars, beneath
which three stone steps, deeply hollowed out and
worn by generations of feet, led to the front
door. At the west end a gabled wing, flag-roofed
like the rest, ran back from the body of
the house ; and at right angles to this there
jutted out westwards a second small wing of the
same shape. In these, the oldest portions of the-house,
traces of former architectural beauties remained
in stately Tudor chimneys and two mullions
windows, round which the ivy clustered
in huge bushes, long left neglected and untrimmed.
At this end of the building a little
garden ran underneath the walls, protected from
the incursions of intrusive cows by a wall which

began towards the back of the house by being
very high, and ended towards the front by being
very low. From the wall to the house the
garden had been shut in by palings and a little
gate ; but these were now much broken and
decayed, and afforded small protection to the
yews and holly-bushes, the little leafless barberry
tree, and the shabby straggling evergreens, which
grew thickly against the weather-stained walls
of the old house, choking the broken panes of
the lower windows as the ivy did those of the
upper ones. It was this western end that was
visible from the road, the view of the front
being obscured by a long stone-built barn, very
old, and erected on foundations older still, about
which hung traditions of monkish days.

If she had seen it at any other time, Olivia
would have been crazy with delight at the
thought of living in such a place ; and even now,
cheerless as the immediate prospect was, it
gave her a gleam of comfort to reflect that, if she
did have to pass the night without any bed
amongst the rats, the ancestors of those rats had

scampered over the place in the time of Queen
Elizabeth.

With some difficulty, Mrs. Wall turned the
key in the rusty lock and admitted them. It
seemed that she had a grievance in the fact that
she had not known on what day they were to
arrive. As a matter of fact, she. was one of
those persons who are never prepared for anything,
but Olivia had had no means of learning
her peculiarities, and so she met the old woman's
complaints in a humble and apologetic spirit
which increased Mrs. Wall's arrogance.

The entrance hall was low-roofed and square ;
the walls were covered with a cheap and commonplace
paper, the wainscoting and the banisters of
the broad staircase were of painted wood. This 
was the portion of the house which had suffered
most during its decadence. Olivia, examining
everything with an eye keen to discover the
good points to be made the most of in her new
home, found that where the paint had worn
off the staircase and wainscot dark oak was
revealed underneath, and she rashly uttered an

exclamation of horror at the vandalism of
the farm's occupants.

The idea of spoiling beautiful dark oak
with this horrid paint ! Why, the people who
did it ought to be sent to penal servitude ! "

Mrs. Wall was scandalised.

T' soaks as lived here last liked t' place
clean," she said, severely. " It'll nivver look t'
same again as it did, wi' a clean white antimacassar
stitched on to every chair, an' wax flowers
under glass shades in a' t' parlour winders. Ant'
parlour alius as neat as a new pin, so ye wur
afraid almost to coom into 't. Ah, ye been
talk o' yer gentlefolk, but they'll nivver mak' it
look t' same again ! "

Olivia had opened the door to the right, and
throwing wide the shutters of one of the three
large windows, revealed a long, low-ceiliuged
room, used as the living-room by the late
farmer's family, and having at the further end a
wide, high, old-fashioned fireplace, the mouldings
of which had been carefully covered with
whitewash, now smoke-begrimed and worn into

ST. CUTHBERT S TOWER.

dark streaks. The shutters and the wainscoting,
which in this room was breast high upon the
walls, had been treated in the same way. Olivia
uttered a groan, and turned to the door, afraid
of uttering more offensive remarks. Then they
went up-stairs, and opened the doors of a lot of
little meanly-papered bed-rooms which formed
the upper storey of this part of the house.
Having allowed the new-comers to examine
these, while she remained sniffing in the passage,
Mrs. Wall shuffled hastily back to the staircase.


Stop ! " cried Olivia, as the old woman
placed one downtrodden shoe on the second
step ; "we haven't seen the other part of the
house at all. Where does this lead to ? "

And she peered into a crooked passage which
led into the first of the two older wings.

Mrs. Wall paused with evident reluctance.

'' There's nowt yonder but t' worst o' t' bedrooms
; ye're seen t' best," she grumbled.

But Olivia was already exploring, followed
by Lucy ; and the old woman, with much

reluctance, brought up the rear. The passage
was quite dark, and very cold. The tallow tip
which Mrs. Wall carried gave only just enough
light to enable the explorers to find the handles
of the doors on the left. One of these Olivia
opened, not without difficulty ; for the floor was
strewn with lumber of all sorts, which the last
occupier of the farm had not thought worth
carrying away. The walls of this room, which
was very small, were panelled right up to the
low ceiling ; and the panelling had been whitewashed.
A second chamber in this passage was
in a similar condition, except that the panelling
had been torn down from two of the four walls,
and its place supplied by a layer of plaster.
Holding up her skirts very carefully, Olivia
stepped across the dusty piles of broken boxes,
damaged fire irons, and odds and ends of torn
carpet with which the floor of this room also was
covered, and looked through the dusty panes of
the little window.

"Now you've seen a','' said Mrs. Wall,
rather querulously. "An' t' lad downstairs

'11 be wanting to know wheel to put t'
things."

She was retreating with her candle, when
Olivia stopped her again.

No," she said eagerly, '' we've not seen
all. There's a wing of the house we have
not been into at all; and I can see through
the Httle window, on this side of it, some
curtains and a flower vase with something still
in it. It doesn't look empty and deserted
like the rest. I must get in there before I
go down."

But Mrs. Wall's old face had wrinkled up
with superstitious terror, and it was only by
force of muscle that the young girl succeeded
in cutting off her retreat.

Na," she said, her voice sinking to a
croaking whisper. " I canna' tak' ye in their.
An'  an' t' doors are locked, ye see," she added,
eagerly, as Oh via, still grasping her conductress's
arm, in vain tried the door at the end of the
passage, and one on the left-hand side at right-angles
with it.

Well, but why are they locked ? " asked
the young girl impatiently, her rich-toned,
youthful voice ringing sonorously through the.
long-disused passage. " The whole place is ours
now, and I have a right to see into everj corner
of it."

"Oh, Miss Olivia, perhaps we'd better go
back  go downstairs  for to-day," suggested the
little maid Lucy, rather timorously, behind her.

Mrs. Wall's nervous tremors were beginning
to infect the poor girl, who was, moreover,
very cold, and longing for some tea.
But her young mistress had at least her fair
share of an immovable British obstinacy. Tinting
that both doors were firmly locked and that
there was no key to either forthcoming, she
flung the whole weight of her massive and
muscular young body against the door on the
left, until the old wood cracked and the rusty
nails rattled in the disused hinges.

Mercy on us ! " exclaimed Sarah Wall,
petrified by the audacity of the young Amazon.
Shoo '11 have t' owt place about our ears ! "

Take the candle, Lucy," said Olivia, imperiously,
perceiving that the dip was flaring and
wobbling in an ominous manner in the old
woman's trembling fingers.

Lucy obeyed, frightened, but curious. Her
mistress made two more vigorous onslaughts
upon the door ; the first produced a great creaking
and straining ; at the second the door gave
way on its upper hinge, so that the girl's strong
hands were able to force the lock with ease. She
turned to the guide in some triumph.

Now, Mrs. Wall, we'll unearth your ghost,
if there is one. At any rate, we'll get to the
bottom of your mystery in five minutes."

But she did not. Pressing on to the end
of a very narrow, unlighted passage in which she
now found herself, Olivia came to a second door ;
this opened easily and admitted her into a large
chamber, the aspect of which, dimly seen by
the fading light which came through a small
square window on her left, filled her brave
young spirit with a sudden sense of dreariness
and desolation.

For it was not empty and lumber-strewn,
like the rest of the rooms she had entered. The
dark forms of cumbrous, old-fashioned furniture
were discernible in the dusk ; the heavy hangings
of a huge four-post mahogany bedstead
shook, as a rat, disturbed by the unwonted intrusion,
slid down the curtain and scurried across
the floor. As she stepped slowly forward on the
carpet, which was damp to the tread, and peered
to right and left in the gloom, Olivia could see
strange relics of the room's last occupant ; the
withered remains of what had been a bunch
of flowers on a table in front of the little
window ; an assortment of Christmas cards and
valentines, all of design now out of date, and all
thickly covered with brown dust, fastened with
pins on to the wall on each side of the high
mantelpiece ; even a book, a railway novel, with
its yellow boards gnawed by the rats, which she
picked up rather timorously from the floor, whereby
this time, it seemed to have acquired a consecrated
right to lie.

Still advancing very slowly, Olivia reached

the opposite side of the room, where her quick
eyes had perceived the barred shutters of a
second and much larger window. With some
difficulty she removed the bar, which had grown
stiff and rusty, and, drawing back the heavy
shutters, revealed the long, stone-mullions
window, with diamond panes, which had been
such a picturesque feature of the house from the
outside. The thick, untrained ivy obscured one
end of it, but enough light glimmered through
the dirt-encrusted panes for Olivia to be now
quite sure of two things of which she felt
nearly sure before  namely, that this was
the best bedroom in the house, and that, for
some mysterious reason, this chamber, instead of
being dismantled like the rest, had been allowed .
to remain for a period of years almost as its last
occupant had left it. Almost, but not quite ;
for the bedding had been removed, the covers to
the dressing-table and the gigantic chest of
drawers, and the white curtains which had once
hung before the shuttered window.

On the other hand, a host of knickknacks

remained to testify to the sex, the approximate
age, and the measure of refinement of the late
owner. More railway novels, all well worn ;
flower vases of an inexpensive kind ; two hand-mirrors,
one broken ; a dream book ; a bow of
bright ribbon ; a handsome cut-glass scent-bottle ;
these things, among others, were as suggestive
as a photograph ; while the fact that this room
alone had been studiously left in its original
state, and even furnished in accordance with
it, threw a new and more favourable light
on the taste of that mysteriously interesting
somebody whose individuality made itself felt
across a lapse of years to the wondering newcomer.


Olivia Denison was not by any means a
fanciful girl. She had been brought up by
a stepmother  a mode of education little likely
to produce an unwholesome forcing of the sentimental
tendencies. She was, besides, too athletic
and vigorously healthy to be prone to superstitious
or morbid imaginings. But as she-stood
straining her eyes in the fading daylight to take
D 2

in every detail of the mysterious room, the
panelling, which in this apartment alone was left
its own dark colour, seemed to take strange
moving patterns as she looked; the musty,
close air seemed to choke her ; and faint creaking
and meanings, either in the ancient woodwork
or the loose-hanging ivy outside, grew in
her listening ears to a murmur as of a voice
trying to speak, and miserably failing to make
itself understood. She was roused by a shrill cry,
and found Lucy, whose fear for her mistress had
overcome her fear of this desolate room, shaking
her by the arm, and pulling her towards the
door.

'' Oh, Miss Olivia, do come out  do come
out ! You're going to faint ; I'm sure you are.
It's all this horrid room  this horrid house.
Oh, do come, and write and tell master it's not a
fit place for Christians to come to, and he'd never
prosper if he was to come here, and nor wouldn't
none of us, I'm positive. Do come. Miss Olivia,
there's a dear. It's fit to choke one in here,
what with the rats and the damp, that it is.

And if we was to stay here long enough we'd see
ghosts, I know."

Olivia laughed. No phantom had terrors
for her, however strong an impression half-guessed
realities might make upon her youthful
imagination.

Don't he afraid, Lucy," she said, encouragingly.
" We'll soon frighten the ghosts away
by letting a little fresh air into these musty
rooms. Here, help me."

Half reassured by her resonant voice, the
maid accompanied her to the larger window,
still clinging to her arm, but more for companionship
than with the idea of affording support
to her mistress, who had recovered her
self-command. Together they succeeded in
throwing open both windows to their full extent,
not, however, accomplishing this without a
shriek from Lucy as a great bird flew out of the
hanging ivy and almost flapped against their
faces in his confusion at this unusual disturbance.
They both felt a sense of relief as the
keen but fresh outside air blew into the long-closed

room, dispersing the mouldy, musty smell
of damp hangings and decaying wood. Even
the old woman, who had stood all this time in
the doorway, apparently engaged in muttering
incantations over the tallow dip, hut really transfixed
hy this audacity of young blood, drew a
long breath as the rush of fresh air reached her,
and gathered courage to ask " what they were
after coin' now."

'we're 'after' ransacking every comer of
this old ghost run, turning it upside down and
inside out, and chasing, away the last shadow of
a bogey," answered Olivia, cheerily. "Here's
another room to look into."

Crossing the room with a light step, she
opened the door of the second of the closed-up
apartments. This chamber also had escaped the
dismantling of the rest of the house, but it contained
very little that would have been worth
taking away. It was lighted by three small
windows, all much broken, and all hung with
limp rags which had once been muslin curtains,
gaily tied up w with blue ribbons, which were now

almost colourless with dust and damp. The
floor was covered with matting:, which smelt like
damp straw, and had evidently afforded many a
meal to the rats now scurrying behind the woodwork,
which in this room was much decayed and
in far from good repair. A plain deal table,
from which the cover had been removed ; two
limp wicker chairs with ragged cushions ; an
empty birdcage ; a fanciful wicker kennel for a
lapdog ; these were nearly all that was left of
the furniture.

Olivia inspected everything with eager
but silent interest, and then turned suddenly
to Sarah Wall, who had again followed
them as far as the door, preferring even the
eerie passage of the bedroom to solitude
outside.

"Who lived in these rooms last?" she
asked.

But the candle nearly fell from Mrs. Wall's
hand as, for all answer, she withdrew into the
desolation of the deserted bedroom, rather than
face the eager questioner again.

Olivia was not to be put off so easily. She
followed precipitately, and, changing the form
of her attack, said 

'' How long is it since these rooms were shut
up, Mrs. Wall ? "

The guide's eyes shifted about, refusing to
meet those of the young girl.

"Two year ; same as rest o' t' house," she
answered, in a grumbling tone.

Only two years ? It wasn't shut up long
before the family went away, then ? " said Olivia,
incredulously.

Not as Ah knows on," answered Sarah
Wall.

Miss Denison hated an untruth with the
impetuous loathing of an honest nature. She
would have liked to shake this wretched old
woman, who would not be candid on a subject
which could not be of the slightest importance
to her.

Perhaps her companion got an inkling
of this information, for she turned and beat a
hasty retreat along the narrow passage which led

from the bedroom to the body of the bouse.
Olivia did not at once follow ber. With a
curious reluctance, better reverence for a
dead past whose relics she was disturbing, or fear
of some shock which its revelations might bring
her, she scarcely knew, the girl picked up one of
the dust-begrimed novels, and looked at the
title-page. But there was nothing written on
it. She opened three or four more of the novels
with the same result. By this time it was
growing so dark that she had to hasten her
movements for fear that when at last a clue was
found she might be unable to distinguish the
letters. Having in vain examined every book
upon the table, she continued to explore until
she found, on a small hanging bookshelf in an
obscure corner of the room, a little pile of devotional
works  Bible, hymn book, Bogatsky's
Golden Treasury," a tiny " Daily Portion,"
and a prayer-book. This last was on the top of
all. As Olivia opened it, there fell to the floor
tiny dried scraps of flowers and fern. Turning
to the flyleaf, and carrying the book in haste to

the window, lie found these words, written in a
round schoolboy's hand 

Ellen Mitchell, from her affectionate
brother Ned." And a date of eighteen years
back.

Olivia replaced the prayer-book on the shelf,
and left the old room without further delay,
followed by Lucy, who had remained close at
hand, but discreetly silent, during these investigations.


When they reached the outer end of the
passage, Olivia glanced with some curiosity at
the old door she had so roughly broken down,
and as she did so, some letters, written in pencil
high on the upper panel caught her eye. With
difficulty she made out a date in July ten years
before.

'' I wonder," she thought, " whether that is
the date on which the rooms were locked up.
If so, it was eight years before the last people
left the house, I know. And their name was
Mitchell. Who can I ask to tell me the
story ? "

And, having forgotten cold, fatigue, and
hunger in the interest of her discoveries, Olivia
Denison made her way slowly down to the
ground-floor again, where she caught Mrs.
Wall in the act of slipping out at the front
door.

A MYSTERIOUS FRIEND.

Time estimable Sarah Wall was, as she herself
would have said, " not in the best of tempers "
at being intercepted in her proposed flight.

Ah thowt we'd got all ye wanted," she
grumbled, as Olivia Denison followed her out onto
the doorstep and asked her where she was
going. '' Ah wur going' whom to get a coop
o' tea, for Ah'm fair hemmed."

'' You thought we'd got all we wanted ! "
said Olivia, ironically. " Why, we've got
nothing at all  not even a chair to sit on. I
think, if you have tea going at your cottage, you
might ask us to come and have some."

Hey, that ye might, Sally," said a gruff
voice, which Olivia had now learnt to recognise
as that of a friend.

Turning, she saw Mat Oldshaw, his blushes,
if he was still blushing, invisible in the darkness.

standing at the foot of the steps, mounting
guard over the luggage, which he had piled
together.

Oh," cried the girl, with a sudden change
to melting gratitude, " you haven't been waiting
out here in the cold all this time for us, have
you?"

Weel, miss," said Mat, laughing uneasily,
and shifting from one heavy foot to the other,
' door was shut, an' Ah couldn't get in."

And, to put an end to conversation, which
was an art in which he felt he did not shine, the
young fellow seized the two smallest trunks and
carried them straight into the big farm living-room,
whistling a lively tune as he did so.
Olivia stood back quite silently while he fetched
in the rest of the luggage in the same way, and
then stood looking at it dubiously by the light
of Mrs. Wall's candle.

It bennet naw good unfastened' t' cords,"
he said at last, " for they won't stay in here.
An' Ah dunno rightly what to be coin' for ye
if yer goods bennet coom."

He went back again to the front door and
looked out. Not that he could see anything of
the road, for the huge barn opposite completely
blocked the view from this point. But he was a
good deal affected by the predicament in which
this beautiful lady and her attendant found
themselves, and he was shy of meeting the lady's
eyes, being without means of comforting her.
Suddenly a figure darted out from the gloom
under the barn walls, a strong hand was laid
upon the lad's arm, and, willy-nilly, he was
dragged down the steps and heartily cuffed
before he had recovered from his first surprise.

"Eh, feather, what art coin' now?" he
asked, as soon as he had recovered breath,
having speedily recognised the touch of his"
parent's loving hand.

Eh, thou feaul, too teas trill ; AhVe got
tha ! Ah gnawed wheel thoo'd got to. This
rooms o' following' fowl wha can't keep off t'
lasses. Coom whom ; coom tha whom, and if
ivver Ah catch tha again a-slitherin' about yon
house, Ah'll turn thee foot o' ma house and foot

o' ma farm, as if ye wur nobbut a ploughboy,
that Ab will ! "

Mat wriggled and writhed till be got loose
from bis father's grasp, and slinking back a step
or two, be called out, not loudly or defiantly, but
with the same rough kindliness wbicb be bad
shown from the first towards the friendless
girls 

Now mind, Sally, thou maun mash t' best
coop o' tea too can for t' eddies."

John Oldsbaw turned round at these words,
and addressed the old woman in a thick and
angry voice.

Sarah Wall, get back to tba wboam an'
tba own business. An' if too canna keep tba
owt fingers foot o' other fowls' affairs, tba needna
coom up our way o' Sundays for t' broken meat.
So now too knows."

And, with a jerk of the bead to bis son
to intimate that Mat could go on in front and
be would follow, the farmer stamped slowly and
heavily away down the yard.

His coarse unkindness affected the three

women differently. Little Lucy began to whimper
and to sob out indignant maledictions upon
the ol-ol-old brute ; " Mrs. Wall, after dropping
half-a-dozen frightened curtseys, manifested
a great eagerness to go ; Olivia drew herself up
and became very stern and grave.

"You need not mind what that man says,
Mrs. Wall," she said, in a firm, quiet voice.
You may be very sure that any kindness you
do us will be amply repaid. And as for the
broken meat he talks about, if you will really
lose that by letting us rest a little while in your
cottage and giving us a cup of tea, I can promise
you a good dinner every Sunday while my
father lives here."

But Mrs. Wall was far too timorous and
cautious a person to risk the substantial reality
of broken meat on Sundays from the great man
of the village for the flimsy vision of a good
dinner from a total stranger. She thrust her
flickering tallow candle into Lucy's hands, and
began to tie her wispy bonnet-strings with a
resolute air.

*' I'll leave t' candle," she said, as if making
a great and generous concession ; " an' that's a'
I can do for 3e. For I've novvt in my place I
could set afore a teddy ; an' as for tea, the bit
fire I left will be out by this times

"But I can light your fire again for you, and
boil your kettle in two twos," burst in Lucy.
And we've brought some tea with us."

Her young mistress put a light hand on her
arm.

"Never mind, Lucy," she said, quietly. " If
Mrs. Wall doesn't care for us to go to her cottage
we will not trouble her."

As she spoke, her eyes brightened, for at the
end of the long barn she descried in the dusk
the figure of the gentleman who had some to
their aid that afternoon and then left them with
such unaccountable suddenness. Lucy saw him
too, and being more demonstrative than her
mistress, she gave vent to her delight in words.

No, Mrs. Wall, ma'am ; you needn't go for
to put yourself out, for there's better folks than
you coming along, that are a deal more obliging

E

than ever you'd be, and that have some Christian
kindness in them, which Is more than can be
said for you. Ugh, you grumpy old woman,
you!"

"Hush, Lucy," said her mistress In gentle
rebuke ; '' the gentleman will hear you. And I
don't suppose he's coming here at all," she
added, reluctantly, as the figure they had both
so quickly recognised disappeared again in the
gloom.

"What gentleman? What gentleman?"
asked the old woman, shrilly.

How should we know, when we're strangers
here ? " retorted Lucy, who, now that her
tongue was once loosened, was delighted to have
what she afterwards called *' a go-in " at their
disobliging guide. '' But he was a real gentleman
; not like your pig-faced friend in the corduroy
trousers that you're so mighty civil to ;
and he wears knickerbockers and gaiters and a
cap over his eyes, if that's anything you can tell
him by."

Apparently it was, for Sarah gave a step

back in horror, and ejaculated "Mercy on us!"
two or three times, as if too much shocked for
further speech.

"What's the matter? " asked Olivia, rather
sharply remembering the stranger's warning
that she would hear no good of him from Sarah
Wall, and curious to learn the reason. " If you
know who the gentleman is, tell me his name.
And what do you know against him? " she added,
indiscreetly

Mrs. Wall, though not brilliantly intelligent,
had the splendid gift of reticence where she
thought that things might " go round." She
only shook her head, therefore, and muttered
something about getting herself into trouble and
desiring to be allowed to go home.

"AVell, just tell me first who he is, then,
and you shall go at once," said Olivia, persuasively.


The old woman, writhing nervously under

the clasp of Miss Denison's hand, evidently cast

about in her mind for a means of getting free

while committing herself as little as possible.

E 2



The reluctant words which at last came out were
not very well chosen, however.

"I'll tell ye this, then," she croaked, in a
broken whisper, peering round with her sunken
eyes as if to be sure the treasonable communication
she was making was not overheard by the
person concerned. " Yon gentleman, as ye call
him, is no fit company for young ladies. And
others have found it foot to their cost  so fowdv
say," she added, hastily. Then, as Olivia released
her arm and she tottered away over the hard
ground, she looked back to add, in a querulous
and anxious tone, 'but don't ye tak' it frae me,
mind. I iiobbut told ye what I've heard say."

Olivia turned back towards the open door of
the dreary house, feeling beyond measure miserable
and disconsolate. The dimly seen figure of
her friend of the afternoon had disappeared ; the
disobliging old woman who was at least a fellow-creature,
was rapidly hobbling out of sight ;
while the words which had just, with so much
difficulty, been forced out of her, seemed in the
hag'a mouth to have acquired the chilling

significance of a curse. Lucy felt this too, for
coming closer to lier mistress lie half whispered :

Oh, Miss Olivia, if there was really such
things as witches, I should believe that old crone
was one."

Nonsense ! Come inside, and let us see
what's to be done."

Oh, you're not going in again  all by ourselves
1 Oh, miss, just think of that upstairs
room ! " wailed the poor girl.

Now, look here, Lucy, you mustn't be
ridiculous. We're in a dreadful plight, and we've
got to make the best of it. If you give way to
silly fancies instead of doing sour best to help
me, I shall have to take you to that inn at the
corner and leave you there while I come back
and shift for myself as best I can""

Luc3% who loved her young mistress, grew
sober and good immediately.

*' You know I'll do what I can. Miss Olivia,"
she said, suppressing a sob of alarm as a dull
sound, apparently from the bam opposite, reached
their ears.

Olivia listened. The sound was repeated.

*' It sounds like some person chopping
wood," she said, after a moment's pause. *' I
daresay, now the place is uninhabited, the villagers
take what liberties they like with it, and
use the barns and sheds to store their own wood
and hay and things in. Now, come in, and let
us undo some of the trunks before the candle
goes out."

With most reluctant feet, but without another
word of remonstrance, Lucy followed her young
mistress. Olivia, with resolute steps and a
mouth set with an expression which said to the
phantoms of the old house, " Come on if you
dare ! " re-entered the hall, and, kneeling down
before a trunk which had been placed there,'
attacked the cord round it with inexpert but
strong fingers. They had got it open, and were
congratulating themselves that in this, the first
trunk unpacked, were candles, tea, and a little
spirit lamp, when, suddenly, there fell upon their
ears a noise which even to the brave-spirited
Olivia was, in a lonely, empty house, undeniable'

alarming. It care from the long living-room
where most of their luggage lay, and was as of
some heavy body falling with a crash on to the
floor.

Olivia sprang to her feet.

I opened one of the windows," she said,
and forgot to shut it. Some one has got in !
No, don't scream ! "

She clapped her hand on Lucy's mouth and
reduced the threatened shriek to a moan ; then,
the noise having by this time ceased, she turned,
heedless of the maid's whispered supplications,
to the door of the long room. The lock was
stiff with rust, and the handle difficult to turn ;
so that, perhaps not much against her will, she
left the intruder, if intruder it was, time to
escape. But there was no fresh sound, and the
young girl's brave heart fluttered a little with
the fear that perhaps, on opening the door, she
would come face to face with a defiant marauder.
At last the door opened. It was dark by this
time; through the opened shutters of the four
windows came only just enough light to show

that the trunks, piled up on the bare floor, had
at least not been removed. The air blew in,
very keen and cold, through the one open window,
which was at the other end of the room,
nearest to the fireplace."

Is anybody there ? " asked Olivia, scarcely
without a tremor.

Her voice echoed without reply in the desolate
apartment.

She held up the candle and advanced slowly,
examining every gloomy corner. No one was
there ; no trace of any one having been there
until, as she reached the other end, her glance
fell on some dark object lying close under the
open window. At this sight Lucy could not
suppress the long-stifled scream, and it was not '
until her mistress, pouncing down upon the mysterious
thing, revealed the fact that it was only
a couple of logs and a bundle of sticks, neatly
tied together with a piece of string, that she
found enough relief from terror to burst into
tears.

*' Who's the benevolent burglar, I wonder? "

cried Olivia, her spirits rising instantly at the
discovery of the little anonymous act of kindness.


She ran to the window and looked out. There
was no one to be seen ; but on the window-ledge
lay a box of cigar-lights.

'' The mysterious stranger again ! " she said
to herself. Then turning to the maid, said,
"Now, Lucy, make a fire as fast as you can.
There are some newspapers with the rugs. Here
are sticks and logs and matches. We shall feel
different creatures when we are once warm."

She shut down the window and boiled some
water with her little spirit lamp ; while Lucy,
with cunning hands, made in the huge rusty
grate a fire which was soon roaring up the chimney,
and pouring its bright warm light on floor
and wall and ceiling. The spirits both of mistress
and maid began to rise a little as they drew
up one of the smaller trunks to the fire, and
made a frugal meal of biscuits and milkless tea.

It is a horrid place, though, Miss Olivia,"
said Lucy, who had been chilled to the heart by

Sarah Wall's utterances, and did not feel wholly
sure that she herself had not been bewitched
by that uncanny person.

Oh, I suppose it might have been worse.
They might have thrown bricks at us," said her
mistress ; " and remember that two people have
already been very kind to us."

Perhaps the young farmer-man only took
to us just out of aggravation because his father
didn't," suggested Lucy, who was a 
girl, and affected to take cynical
views of young men. " And as for the gentleman,
why, the old woman as good as said decent
folk had better have nothing to do with
him."

But you surely wouldn't take that miserable
old woman's word for it? "

No, but I'd take his own face, miss. I
watched him when the old farmer was going on
so ; and, my gracious ! I never see such a black
look on any one's face before. He seemed to
grow all daik and purple-looking, and his eyes
were quite red-like. It was just like as if he'd

have knocked the other man down, miss, that it
was."

Well, I don't think I should have thought
any the worse of him if he had."

Oh, miss, it's an evil face. And I'm never
deceived about faces. I said, first time I saw
her, that nursery-maid Mrs. Denison sent away
without a character was no good. And then
that under-gardener "

You mustn't let your prejudices run away
with you. Judge people by their actions, not
their looks. Now, I saw something quite different
in that gentleman's face, and we can't both
be riirht. It seemed to me that he looked like a
man who had had a very hard life and a great
deal of trouble ; as if he had done nothing but
struggle, struggle with  I don't know exactly
with what ; poverty, perhaps, or perhaps with a
violent temper, or "

She stopped and stared into the fire, having
ceased to remember that she was carrying on a
conversation. Her wandering thoughts, however,
soon took a practical turn again. " The

cabman ! " lie cried, starting up tragically : "I
never paid him."

She was instinctively turning towards the
door, haunted by an alarming sum in addition
of innumerable hours at sixpence everj quarter
of an hour, when Lucy's voice, in tones of great
shrewdness, stopped her.

'' Oh, Miss Olivia," she said, shaking her
head knowingly ; " he's gone away long ago.
I this was a place where cabman would wait
for their fares for two hours without so much as
knocking at the door we might think ourselves
in heaven, which the other people shows us
we're not."

*' Well, but who paid his fare, then ? "

Lucy began to look not only mysterious, but
rather alarmed.

Oh, Miss Olivia, perhaps it's a plot to get
us into his power."

They had both come to the same conclusion
as to the person who paid the fare, but at this
point their reflections branched off into widely
different channels.

You're a little goose, Lucj and you've been
filling your head with penny novels, I can see,"
said lie.

Bat the obligation to a stranger, which she
could scarcely doubt she was under, troubled
her.

"It is very, very awkward to be thrown out
like this in a strange place with nobody to go to
for help or advice," she began ; when suddenly
a light came into her face, and she sprang up
and ran to fetch her travelling-bas:. " I'd forgotten
all about it ! " she cried, as she drew out
a closed letter directed in an old-fashioned,
pointed, feminine hand to " Mrs. leander, the
Vicarage, Eishton." " Tbe wife of one of the
curates at Streatham knows the wife of the vicar
here, and gave me a letter of introduction to her.
I will go and call upon her at once. If she is
the least nice she will help us, and tell us how to
treat with these savages."

Olivia was fastening her mantle, which she
had not taken off, and putting on her gloves.
Lucy's round face had grown very long.

"And must I stay here, miss, all by myself?"
she asked, dolefully.

Olivia looked at her dubiously

I would rather you stayed here, certainly,
because, you see, the furniture might come while
we were away," she said at last. " On the other
hand, if you are going to frighten yourself into
a fit at the scraping of every mouse "

Lucy drew herself up. She was not really a
coward, and this speech put her upon her mettle.

*' I'll stay. Miss Olivia," she said, resolutely ;
adding, in a milder voice, " You won't be very
long, will you ? "

*' Indeed I won't," answered her mistress,
promptly. " I don't suppose it takes more than
five minutes to go from one end of the village
to the other. We saw the church from the cab
windows ; it's on the top of the hill. I shall
make for that ; the Vicarage is sure not to be
far off."

Without more delay Olivia left the house,
taking the way to the right by which they had
approached it, in the hope of meeting some one

belonging: to the inn who would direct her.
She was fortunate enough to come upon a diminutive
villager, who, after lengthy interrogation
and apparent ignorance as to where " the Vicarage
" was, acknowledged to knowing " where the
parson lived."

** Will you take me to the house if I give
you twopence ? "

*they," replied the small boy, promptly.

He did not start, however, until he had
taken an exhaustive survey of her, either for
identification in case she should try to elude
him at the other end of the journey, or to satisfy
himself whether she was a person likely to possess
twopence.

Their's two ways," he said, at last.
Short way over t' brook, an' op t' steps and
through t' churchyard ; long way by t' road an'
op t' hill."

"Go the short way, then."

Mr. Middle, t' carpenter, fell an' break
his leg going' op their this afternoon. An' t'
churchyard gate's closed by now."

Well, then, we'll go the other way, of
course."

The boy trudged along up the road, which
was a continuation of that by which they had
come to the farm, and made no attempt at conversation
except in answer to Olivia's questions.
Lie made out, after much persevering pumping,
that the vicar, Mr. Brander, was much liked,
and that his wife was only a little less popular.
After this there was a pause, which was broken
by the boy, as they passed between a plain
stone building standing back from the road
on the right, and a group of hay and straw
stacks, sheds, and farm buildings on the
left.

That's Maister Oldshaw's fai-m," said the
boy.

Ugh ! " ejaculated Olivia below her breath,
hurrying on with angrily averted eyes.

The whole place, seen by the weak light of
the rising moon, seemed to her to display the
repulsive hideousness of it; master.

After this the road wound to the left up

the hill, and they passed a few scattered cottages,
one of which was the primitive village postoffice.


That be t' parson's house," said the boy, as
they came in sight of an irregularly built stonehouse,
standing high, on the left-hand side of
the road, in a well-wooded garden.

They had to go round this garden, and turn
sharply to the left into a private road at the top
of the hill. This brought them face to face with
the gates of the little churchyard, while on the
left was the front door of the Vicarage, a pretty
building in the Tudor style, which, seen even in
the faint moonlight, had a pleasant, welcoming
air of comfort, peace, and plenty. Olivia gave
the boy his twopence, and rang the bell with a
hopeful heart. Everything seemed to promise
well for the success of her errand. A neat maid
soon came to the door, but to Olivia's inquiry
whether Mrs. Brander were at home came the
dispiriting answer that she was away. Miss
Denison reflected a moment.

Is Mr. Brander at home ? " she then asked.

"Yes, ma'am, Mr. Yernon Brander is in.
Will yon see him ? ''

Yes, if I can."

She followed the servant across the wide,
well-warmed hall, to a door at which the maid
knocked.

Come in," said a voice which seemed familiar
to Olivia.

A lady wishes to see you, sir," said the
servant.

Show her in at once," said the man's
voice.

Olivia drew back instead of advancing, as
the servant made way for her to enter.

*' It is Mr. Brander, the clergyman, I wish
to see," said Olivia, hurriedly, in a low voice.

Oh, yes, ma'am, it's all right. Mr. Brander
is a clergyman," answered the maid reassure


Before another word could pass, Mr. Brander
himself, hearing a discussion, came to the door.
Olivia looked at him in some confusion. It washer
unknown friend of the afternoon !

THE MYSTERIOUS FRIEND REVEALS HIMSELF.

Olivia's momentary embarrassment was at once
removed by the kindness of Mr. Brander's
greeting.

Yes, Mr. Brander is a clergyman. I hope
you have no prejudice against the cloth' he
said, holding out his hand with a welcoming
smile. " It's not a proper clerical garment, I
confess," he went on, as Olivia's glance fell
instinctively upon the old shooting coat he now
wore ; " but I flatter myself the collar saves it."

And he pointed to his orthodox round
collar.

I am not sure of that," said the young girl,
smiling in answer. " For instance, if I had
known this afternoon that you were a
clergyman, I should have felt much more at
ease about accepting your very kind services."

"Should you? Well, then, you are at ease
f2

about it now. Come in, and tell me if there is
anything more I can do for you."

Olivia followed him into the most charmingly
luxurious study she had ever seen.
Everything in it was comfortable and handsome,
in the best modern taste. The doors, mantelpiece,
and panelling were of carved light oak,
the furniture of the same, upholstered in dark-green
morocco. There were porters and
curtains of dark tapestry, harmonising with the
carpet. The books, which filled four large and
handsome bookcases, looked to the connoisseur
too dainty to be touched by common fingers.
Evidences of a woman's presiding eye and hand
were there too, Olivia fancied, in a certain
graceful draping of the curtains, which seemed to
her to betray neither the upholsterer nor the
housemaid ; in a tall bouquet of dried bulrushes
and corn which stood in one corner ; and in a
small conservatory, full of dark palms and ferns,
into which one of the windows opened. Everything
was well chosen, everything harmonised
with everything else, except the shabbily dressed

figure in the centre, with his lean, dark, worn
face, and hungry black eyes, and the tattered
volume he held in his hand. Mr. Brander
read the thought that flashed through his guest's
mind, and asked 

Now, what is your first impression of this
room r

"It is very, very pretty," said Olivia.

"Well, and what else?"

Some one else had more to do with the
arrangement of it than you."

Olivia had never before felt so perfectly at
ease with a stranger  so well able to speak her
passing thoughts out frankly and freely.

Eight : quite right. And now let me hear
what sort of a guess you can make as to the
person wlio had the arrangement of it."

It was a lady. Perhaps a lady who has
had some art-school training ; but one who can
think for herself a little too. Not an every-day
sort of lady, and yet not eccentric. One whom
you would like to know, but whom you might
be a little afraid of''

By the interest and pleasure with which
Mr. Brander followed her as she proceeded
slowly and cautiously with her conjectures,
Olivia felt sure that she was describing his wife,
and also that she was getting near the truth.
But then a look of pain came into his dark face,
which set her wondering whether they had had a
severe quarrel, whether there was some serious
estrangement between them, or whether the
trouble from which he was evidently suffering
was caused merely by the absence of the
woman of his heart. This singular clergyman,
with his unconventional dress and manners, his
worn face, and his great kindness, was so
different from any of the stiff curates and
unctuous vicars she had ever met, that he and
his surroundings awoke in her the liveliest
interest even apart from the mysterious warning
of Sarah Wall, and the surly insolence shown
towards him by Farmer Oldshaw. After a
short pause, he said 

"Eight in every particular. Now we will
see if you can find the lady."

On the mantelpiece was a collection of
photographs, most of them of more or less
beautiful women, all handsomely framed. Mr.
Brander invited Olivia to come up and inspect
them. With another slight feeling of surprise,
which she would have found it hard to account
for, she stepped on to the soft fur hearth rug and
made a careful review of the whole gallery.
But here she was quite at a loss.

"I must lose my character for divination,"
she said at last, shaking her head as she stepped
back. " I don't see any face that I could point
out with any certainty."

Try."

She chose one. Mr. Brander shook his
head.

Wrong," he said. " You have disappointed
me. What made you choose that one ?
Give me the nearest approach you can to a
reason."

It looks a good, kind, sensible face."

It belongs to a good, kind, sensible woman
a Miss Williams  a striking contrast to the

rest of her family," lie added as a comment to
himself. "But she is not the lady who chose
the fittings of this room. What do you say to
this one ? "

It was Olivia's turn to be disappointed, and
her face showed her surprise. The photograph
was that of a woman who was very handsome,
and there one's reflections concerning her
ended. Mr. Brander laughed.

Say what you think of it quite frankly. I
shan't be offended," he said.

"It is a beautiful face," she answered.

"Well, what else?"

Nothing else," said Olivia in desperation.
"Mrs. Brander may have every great quality
that ever adorned a woman; but her face, like
nearly all very beautiful ones, I think, is just
beautiful and nothing else."

Don't you see any feeling, imagination,
passion ? "

"No 0, indeed I can't."

Well, that's all right, because she hasn't
any."

Olivia listened rather awkwardly, for Mr.
Brander had unconsciously let a little feeling, a
little bitterness, sound in the tones of his own
voice.

Do you see great common sense, shrewdness,
and a splendid faculty for perceiving where
the greatest advantage lies to her and hers ? "

His tone was still a little hitter, but it was
good-humoured and playful also.

'' Oh, no ! " said Olivia.

*' Well, then, you should see those qualities,
for they are all there."

And may I know who this is ? " asked
Miss Denison, to turn the conversation from a
point where she had no more to say.

She was looking at the companion frame to
that which contained the lady's portrait. It
held the picture of a strikingly handsome man,
not far off middle age, plump, good-humoured,
and prosperous-looking, dressed in correct
clerical costume, with a beautiful child seated on
his knee.

That is my brother."

Your brother ! "

All the rules of courtesy could not avail to
hide her surprise then. A greater contrast
could not be imagined than that between this
worn, haggard, ascetic-looking, shabby man,
with his unconventional dress and manner, and
the neat, smiling, comfortable-looking gentleman,
who seemed to beam from his morocco
frame on a world where tithe wars were not.
Then a light flashed upon Olivia, and she gave
Mr. Brander a smile of triumphant shrewdness.

Now I understand it all," she said, eagerly.
*' This room is your brother's, and this lady is
not your wife, but his."

Mr. Brander laughed rather sadly.

You think they all * match ' with him
better than they would with me''

Olivia grew very red, and in some confusion
tried to explain away this too obvious conclusion.
But Mr. Brander stopped her.

You are quite, quite right," he said,
kindly. " You would be blind if you couldn't
see. My sister-in-law saw it, twelve years ago,

when she was wise enough to reject me and to
take my brother."

There, now you see why Mrs. Meredith
Brander is destitute of feeling, imagination, and
passion, and resplendent only in the less lovable
qualities," he went on, mocking at himself
good-humouredly. " If she had only chosen me,
I should have a very different tale to tell, you
may be sure."

Olivia was silent. The strange contrast
between the two brothers filled her with pity for
the one who had been kind to her, and with a
sort of unreasonable antagonism towards the unknown
one to whom fortune had been so much
more generous.

"It seems very hard on you," she said,
glancing at him rather shyly.

But even as she spoke a violent change came
over his face which chilled and repelled her, and
brought back to her mind with sudden and
startling vividness the vague warning of the old
woman. A flush of fierce and vindictive anger,
a short, sharp struggle with himself, and then

Mr. Brander was subdued and kind and
courteous as ever. But this peep at the nature
underneath had made an impression upon Olivia
which she could not readily forget ; it destroyed
the ease she had felt with him, and woke a
distrust which his instant return to his old
kindly manner failed to remove.

It is very good of you to think so," he said,
with a courteous smile. " At one time I admit
it seemed hard to me too. But I've been forced
to confess long ago that I could not have
occupied the position he fills either with credit
to myself or satisfaction to anybody else. While,
as for poor Evelyn, if she had had the misfortune
to take me, with my bad temper and my
inevitable hatred of order, instead of being still
handsome, amiable, and young, she would be a
haggard old woman."

Remembering, as she did, the bitterness
which he had previously shown in speaking of
his sister-in-law, and the fierce animosity which
had blazed out of his black eyes a moment ago
in recalling the contrast between his brother and

himself, Olivia could not help feeling there was
a little hypocrisy in this ultra-modest speech,
and she made some civil answer in a tone which
showed constraint in comparison with her
previous warm-hearted and simple frankness.
Mr. Brander looked scrutinisingly at her face,
and reading the change in its expression,
hastened to open another and less dangerous
subject.

And here I have been gossiping about my
own idle affairs all this time, without once asking
you what you came to see me about, and what I
can do for you."

I brought a letter of introduction to Mrs.
Brander," said Olivia, producing it. *' The wife
of one of the curates at Streatham, where I live,
or at least where I have been living," she added,
correcting herself, ' knew Mrs. Brander some
years ago. And she thought, as I was coming
here all by myself, it would be pleasant for me
to know some one."

My sister-in-law would have helped you ina
hundred ways," said Mr. Brander, regretfully.

She is a very energetic woman, and loves to
have some active work to do for anybody, if
there is a little occasion to show fight over it.
And there is in your case ; for that unmannerly
old ruffian, John Oldshaw, who made himself so
offensive just now at the inn, wanted to have
the farm your father has taken, and will annoy
you all in every way he can for spite, if I'm not
mistaken."

If he does, I shall get papa to complain to
Lord Stannington," said Miss Denison, with
a resolute expression about her mouth.

Well, we must hope there won't be any
need to do so. Perhaps your father is a better
farmer than John Oldshaw, and will be able to
make him sing small."

Oh, I'm afraid not," said she, shaking her
head dolefully ; " papa has never been a farmer
before. He's been a banker, but he never did
much banking, I think ; and the other partners
bought him out of the bank a little while ago,
and he did nothing at all for a little while. But
we are not rich enough to live like that, so he

thought he should like to try farming, especially
as my stepmother had been ordered to live in
the country*

Mr. Brander looked grave. He could not
help thinking that things looked very black for
his pretty visitor. A weak and idle father, an
invalid step-mother, such were the fancy portraits
he instantly drew of the pair, setting up as
amateurs in a business which even experience,
industry, and capacity can scarcely nowadays
make remunerative ! What would become of the
bright girl in these circumstances ?

How came they to send you down here all
by yourself? " he asked, after a pause.

My step mother  you know I told you I
had a stepmother," she interpolated, with mischievous
meaning  " has delicate health ; that
is to say, her health is too delicate for her ever
to do anything she doesn't wish to do, and she
did not wish to come down to an empty house,
to have all the worry and trouble of filling it. So
I offered to do it. Home has been rather tiresome
lately, and I thought it would be fun, and besides

that I really wanted to be useful, and to make
things as comfortable as I could for poor papa.
But I did think she would see that the furniture
was sent in time."

Yes, that's an awkward business, certainly.
We must consider what is best to be done. And
while I'm thinking it over, you'll have a glass of
wine and a biscuit, won't you ? " said he, as he
touched the bell.

Olivia did not refuse. She thought her best
chance of a happy issue out of her difficulties lay
in trusting to the clergyman, whose persistent
kindness was fast effacing the unpleasant impression
of a few minutes before. She even asked
him ingeniously whether he thought she ought to
stay any longer away from the bare house where
she had left poor little Lucy alone with the mice.
Mr. Brander quieted her conscience as, in
obedience to his order, the maid servant brought
in wine and cake, with which he proceeded to
serve the hungry girl.

I shall let you go in two minutes now' he
said. " And we won't let Lucy starve either."

The servant was still waiting.

"What is it, Hester?"

'' Young Mr. Williams has called, sir. He
wishes to speak to you for a minute. I believe
he has a message'*

Mr. Brander's face clouded.

Where is he ? I'll go out and speak to him,"
he said, shortly.

But the words were scarcely out of his mouth
when a voice, speaking in coarse and familiar
tones, was heard outside the door, heralding the
approach of the new-comer.

It's all right ; it's only me. Suppose I can
come in, eh ? "

And, without waiting for permission, a young
man elbowed his way past the servant, and
entered the room.

The word which applied best to Mr,
Frederick Williams, including his face, voice,
dress, and manner, was " cub." He was short
and sandy; he had an expression of mingled
dulness and cunning, in which dulness predominated
; his dress, his vocabulary, and a

certain roll in his walk, smacked of the stable ;
and the only conspicuous quality he showed to
balance these disadvantages was a certain coarse
good humour which never failed him. He was
even destitute of that very common grace in
young men of his type  an un surmountable
shyness in the presence of women of refinement.
On catching sight of Olivia, seated by the fire,
eating cake with unmistakable enjoyment, his
eyes opened wide with astonishment and boorish
admiration, which gave place the next moment
to an expression of intense shyness, as, with a
loud cough, he affected to retreat to the
door.

Oh, I beg pardon, Mr. Brander ; I didn't
mean to interrupt such a pleasant tete-astute, I'm
sure."

But he had no intention of going, and
Mr. Brander asked him rather curtly what he
came for.

* Oh, my business is of no consequence ; it
will do any time," answered Mr. Williams, still
with his light eyes fixed upon Olivia.

Very likely. But what is it ? " asked Mr.
Brander, still more shortly.

Oh, my father wants to see you about
something. It's about the church, I believe ;
your church, St. Cuthbert's. He wants to do
something for it, I fancy; says the condition
it's in is a disgrace to the neighbourhood."

Again Olivia saw on Mr. Brander's face
a glimpse of fierce anger, with which, however,
she this time heartily sympathised. Feeling
very uncomfortable, she rose and held out
her hand to the clergyman. His face cleared ashe
took it.

Now, don't worry yourself too much about
the wretched furniture," he said, with his old
kindliness. " As you go down the hill, mind
you stop where the roads cross. There's a
wishing-cap hangs on the hedge just there. If
you see it, put it on ; if you don't, make the
motion of putting it on, and at the same time
say these words just under your breath, ' I wish
that within an hour I may be installed very
comfortably ! ' "
g2

*' Thank you' said Olivia, laughing and
returning the pressure of his hand warmly ;
if the wishing cap could bring that to pass, I
should begin to look with respect on a broomstick."


Mr. Williams' face had assumed during these
two last speeches an expression of mingled bewilderment
and contempt. As the lady moved
towards the door, he followed without having
once taken his eyes off her.

Will you be able to find your way ? "
asked Mr. Brander, as lie opened the study
door.

"Ill go with, you; I'll escort you. Which
way are you going ? " asked Mr. Williams,
eagerly. " To the Hall, eh ? I go past it';
don't I, Brander?"

I believe so," said the clergyman, shortly.

So, you see, you're not putting me to
any inconvenience at all," went on the young
man.

"Oh, I didn't think of that," said Miss
Denison, with a little laugh and a pretty

turn of the head. " In my part of the
world it is never an inconvenience to see a
lady home."

In the meantime they had all crossed the
hall and arrived at the front door, where Mr.
Brander, with a reluctant frown at his male
visitor, again shook hands warmly with Olivia,
and told her not to lose heart. He watched the
ill-assorted pair as they went down the lane until
they turned into the high road. Until they
reached this point they proceeded in silence, but
as soon as they began to descend the hill, the
young man found voice after his snub.

You're deuced sharp on a fellow," he said
then, in a conciliatory tone. " It wasn't my
fault that I turned up when the parson was
making sleeps' eyes at you."

If I am to put up with your society until I
reach the Hall gates, I really must ask you to
abstain from making offensive remarks," said
Olivia, icily.

Offensive ! Oh, all right. But I warn
you that parson chap is a deal more likely

to be offensive than I am. By Jove ! " lie
continued, after a freezing pause ; "if you
weren't such a pretty girl I'm hanged if I'd
go a step further with you, after your rudeness."


In your own choice language, ' I'm hanged '
if you shall," answered Miss Denison, with
spirit.

Before the astonished young man could
recover his speech the girl had flown down
the hill like an arrow with the wind. He
had admired her before ; for this display of spirit
he felt that he adored her. At this point the
road made a circuitous bend, which could be cut
ofl" by one familiar with the place by crossing the
fields. Red Williams was through a gap in the
hedge in a moment, and on regaining the road
be was a few yards ahead of the still flying
lady. Darting out upon her as she passed,
he seized her by the arm ; and as the attack was
unexpected, she staggered for a second.

You're a splendid runner, but you can't
beat me," said the young gentleman, with what

was meant to be an alluring mixture of admiration
and manly condescension.

But it had quite a wrong effect upon the
lady. Pausing one moment to recover her breath
and her balance, she extricated herself from his
insolent clutch with a sudden athletic movement
which flung him reeling into the hedge, where
he lodged amid a great crackling of branches.

I shall not require your escort further, thank
you," said Miss Denison then imperturbably to
the spluttering swain.

And she walked on again with a perfect and
defiant security. She had not misjudged her
effect, for Mr. Williams did not attempt to
molest her again. Just as she reached the farm
gates, however, he hurried after her, and without
coming to close quarters, said, maliciously 

Very well, madam. Don't be afraid that I
shall interfere with you again. But before you
take up with Parson Brander, I'd just ask him, if
I were you, what has become of Nellie Mitchell."

But Miss Denison walked through the gates
without a word.

A STARTLING CHARGE.

To be able to inflict a severe physical defeat
upon an obtrusive admirer may be a highly convenient
accomplishment, but the necessity for its
exercise cannot but be a humiliating experience.
Olivia Denison felt the hot tears rise to her eyes
as she walked up through the farmyard to the
Hall. If only one of her own stalwart brothers,
Edward or Ernest, were here to give this insolent
cad the thrashing he deserved ! But
Edward was in India with his regiment, and
Ernest was tied to a desk in a solicitor's office in
London. She must depend* upon her own arm
and her own head for protection now; fortunately,
neither was of the weakest, as she herself
felt with some satisfaction. In fact, she scarcely
knew yet what measure of strength, both mental
and physical, was hers ; for she had led hitherto

an easy, sheltered life, idle in the sense that all
her energy had been spent in amusing herself,
happy but for certain uncongenial elements at
home.

Now there was to be a difference. Without
being expected to know how it came to pass,
Olivia knew that papa had grown poorer, that
he had become frightfully irritable about bills of
late, and that various violent and spasmodic
efforts at retrenchment, and papa's reiterated
declarations that he must " do something," had
culminated in the sale of the beautiful house at
Streatham, and in the taking of Ashton Hall
Farm. There was something not quite painful
in the feeling that she would have to " do something
" too, and in the knowledge that she
might now be able to turn her quickness of eye
and hand to useful account in the service of the
father whom she adored. What would his sensitive
nature do among these Oldshaws, and
these Williams, and these Walls, with the
most unpleasant and disturbing rumours afloat
about the very clergyman in charge ? This was

the reflection which troubled Olivia's mind as
she approached the Hall for the second time, and
going up the worn steps, let herself in without
any need to knock at the door.

Lucy ! " she called, as she opened the door
of the big room on the right.

There was no answer. The room was deserted,
and the fire had burnt low. Olivia
shivered as she went in. The run down
the hill had put her in a glow; the entrance
into this mouldy old chamber chilled
her. She put more wood on the fire, and sat
down to await the return of Lucy, who, she did
not doubt, had found the loneliness of the place
too much for her nerves, and had gone out to
look for her mistress. In a few minutes Olivia'
began to long even for the patter of a mouse's,
feet, for the song of a cricket, for any sign of
life in the desolate old house, if it were only the
sight of the lately black beetle. The spirit of
the unknown Nellie Mitchell seemed to haunt
her. That girl, who had lived in the house,
gone about her daily work in this room, whose

mementoes still remained undisturbed and undecayed
in these deserted old walls, who was
she ? What had become of her ? *' Ask Mr.
Brander"; so the odious Fred Williams had
said, with intensely malicious significance.
Should she dare to do this, and perhaps satisfy
once for all those doubts of her new friend which
not only the conflicting opinions of the villagers,
but certain morose and repellant changes of expression
on his own face, had instilled into her ?
She could not decide. Between her doubts, her
loneliness, and her sense of the difficulties of her
desolate situation, the poor girl was growing so
unhappy, that when at last she heard the sound
of footsteps upon the ground outside, she sprang
up with a cry, and ran to the door, ready to force
whoever it might be to share her vigil.

On the doorstep she found Sarah Wall,
whom conscience, or a glimmering notion that it
might be as well to be " in wi' t' new fowl," had
brought back to make inquiries.

Hanna' yer goods coom ? " she asked, rather
apologetically.

*' No ; they won't come to-night now,"
answered Miss Denison with a sigh.

There's summit  a cart or a waggon or
snmmat  at t' gate now."

The hope was too much. Olivia gave a little
cry. But when, a little later, there absolutely
did drive up through the farmyard, and draw up
at the door, a small open cart closely packed
with bedroom furniture, she could scarcely keep
from bursting into tears. For the first few
minutes she was too overjoyed to perceive anything
very singular in this arrival. In the front
of the cart, beside the driver, sat two neat and
buxom country girls, who sprang down to the
ground with much suppressed excitement and
half-hysterical laughter, and without any explanation
of their presence, proceeded, with the help
of the driver, to unpack the cart, and to carry
the contents indoors and upstairs. Olivia stood
back bewildered. One had a lantern and the
other a broom ; neither would advance a step
towards the old house, or up the wide staircase,
without the comfort and support of the other's

near presence. But up they did go at last, stifling
little screams at every other step, and returning
the jihes of the driver with prompt retorts.
This young man looked like a stable-boy, or
perhaps a groom in undress. As he came downstairs
again, after having taken up a folding
bedstead, Olivia asked him where he came from.

From t' Vicarage, miss," he answered, with
a stableman's salute. " Mr. Yernon sent us
down and told us to put t' things in and coom
back as quick as we could. T' lasses was to
clean foot a room upstairs for ye."

Sarah Wall was emitting a series of witch-like
grunts in the background.

Mr. Yernon ! " cried Olivia ; " Mr. Yernon
Brander ! Oh, how very kind of him ! How
very kind ! "

He'll be down himself just now, miss, I
think," continued the lad; "he said he'd coom
wi' t' second lot."

Here Mrs. Wall broke in with a preliminary
croaking cough 

"Nea, nea. He wunna coom a-nigh this

house. He doomed here too often in t' owt
time. Nea, nea ! He wunna coom inside noo."

"How tha tongue, Sal," said the lad,
quickly. " Thoo'd get thasen in' trouble wit'
vicar if he heard tha prattling so o' 's
brother."

Whereupon the old woman fell to incoherent
mumbling, and the lad, having discharged his
load, saluted the young lady again, and drove
away. With a pleasant sense upon her that
help, ready and efficient, was indeed come at
last, Olivia went indoors again, and, directed by
the sounds of active sweeping, and at least as
active chattering, found her way to the best bedroom
in this part of the house, which the exertions
of the two maids were quickly rendering
habitable. They had brought with them even a
large scuttled of coals, and a supply of candles.
In half an hour the room was swept, a fire
lighted, carpet laid down, and two little beds
and a suite of bedroom furniture disposed to the
best advantage.

Mr. Yernon said we was only to fit up one

bedroom, ma'am, as you'd be sure to want your
maid to sleep in the same room with you in this
big empty house, miss," said the elder and more
responsible of the servants.

Yes, that is quite true," answered Miss
Denison, promptly.

And as soon as we had done this room we
was to sweep out the big one downstairs."

Oh," said Miss Denison, " you need not do
that. One room is plenty for us to go on with,
and I don't wish you to have the trouble of
doing any more."

'' Oh, it's no trouble, ma'am. And those
were Mr. Yernon's orders. And when the
master and missus is away, we have orders todo
just as Mr. Yernon says, exactly as if he was
master. You see, master thinks such a deal of
Mr. Yernon."

Here was another instance of the strange
enthusiasm for Mr. Yernon Brander which he
seemed to excite equally with the most violent
antagonism.

I wouldn't ha' come here by myself, though;

not if Mr. Yernon had ordered me ever so : no,
and not if master and Mrs. Brander hadn't
ordered me too, that I wouldn't ! " broke in the
younger maid, with decision.

Miss Denison caught sight of a severe frown
and a bit of expressive pantomime, signifying
that she was to hold her tongue, from her older
and more discreet companion.

How is that ? " asked the young lady.
Do you think this house is haunted ? '*

Of course not, ma'am," broke in the elder.
Susan, you ought to be ashamed of yourself,
telling such silly stuff. Of course, ma'am, when
a house lies empty some time there's all sorts of
tales gets about, and I daresay if you hadn't
come and taken it, in another year there'd ha'
been a whole lot of ghost stories and such-like
about it."

Miss Denison saw that there was nothing to
be learnt here, so she asked no more questions,
but waited eagerly for the arrival of Mr. Brander.
At last, from the position she had taken up on
the steps outside the front door, she heard the

clergyman's voice and the sound of wheels and
hoofs at the same time ; a few seconds later the
cart, again piled with furniture, stopped at the
door, and Mr. Brander, springing down from his
place beside the driver, held out a helping hand
to the third person in the cart, who proved to
be no other than Lucy. Instead of jumping outwith
her usual activity, however, the little maid
hung back in the most nervous manner, and
finally had almost to be lifted out of the vehicle,
uttering words of protest in a hoarse whisper.

"Lucy ! Why, what's the matter with
you ? " asked her young mistress kindly, perceiving
by the light of the lantern the clergyman
carried that the bright red colour had left the
girl's round cheeks, and that her eyes were distended
with some absorbing horror.

Nothing, Miss Olivia  nothing," stammered
she, faintly. " I  I went out to look for
you. I thought you might have lost your way
and  and

As Eben and I were driving down the hill
we met her, and, finding that she was looking

H

for you, Miss Denison, I made her get up and
come on with the luggage."

He did not look at Lucy, neither did she
look at him, and in the course of the work of
unloading and furnishing in which they now
both proceeded to take an active part, Olivia
could not help noticing the ashy paleness that
came over the maid's face, and the way in which
she shrank into herself, if accident brought her inclose
contact with the gentleman. The installation
now went on merrily. To Olivia's great
relief Mr. Brander, contrary to Sarah Wall's prediction,
showed not the least reluctance to enter
the old house, but went backwards and forwards
between the cart and the big room until there
was nothing left to bring in.

We haven't brought nearly enough furniture
to fill this big room, you know," he explained,
as he trundled in a roll of carpet. '' The
cart would only hold just sufficient to make you
a little oasis at the fireplace end ; but it's better
than the bare boards, and tomorrow we'll hope
you'll have your own things about you."

Oh, Mr. Brander, I can't thank you," said
Olivia, overwhelmed. " You have built a palace
for us in the desert ; but what will the vicar
say ? He will come back and find that you have
ransacked his beautiful house on behalf of two
utter strangers ! I shall never dare to look Mrs.
Brander in the face after taking part in such a
sacrilege."

My brother would say nothing if I were
to turn all the drawing-room furniture out
into the churchyard," answered he, promptly.
You mustn't judge his temper by my black
looks. He and I are as different as heaven
and  earth. All the ladies fall in love with
him."

Then I shall not," said Miss Denison, decidedly.
" I like my loves all to myself."

Mr. Brander considered her attentively, with
a quizzical look.

I should think you would," he said, smiling.
" I am afraid you will be badly off down
here  if indeed you could be badly off for admirers
anywhere. The nearest approach to an
H 2

eligible swain in these parts is the gentleman
who escorted you home."

Olivia, who was nailing up a curtain while
Mr. Brander kept steady the erection of a box
and a chair on which she stood, put down her
hammer to indulge in a hearty burst of laughter.

Oh, I'm afraid it's all over with the pretty
little romance you have been building up forme,"
she said, looking down with her bright eyes
still twinkling with amusement. " I pushed
him into a hedge ! "

"At the first blush that does not look promising,
certainly," said Mr. Brander, with perfect
gravity, "considering the rank of the parties.
For if he had been the clodhopper nature intended
him for, and you the dairymaid he would
have liked you to be, such a demonstration as
that would have been the certain prelude to a
wedding."

It wasn't a very ladylike thing to do, I'm
afraid," said Olivia, blushing a very becoming
crimson. "But really he was not the sort of
person to be dealt with by means of modest

little screams and fluttering. And  well, the
truth is, I really was so furiously angry that I
would have thrown him over the hedge if I'd
been strong enough."

I wish you belonged to my parish," said
Mr. Brander, reflectively. "It is a great pity
such nerve and muscle should be thrown away.
Now, there's an old villain who always nods
through the first part of my sermon, and snores
as soon as I grow a little eloquent  and  and I
aren't throw him into the hedge myself ; my
motives might be questioned. But if I could
only get a fair and amiable parishioner to do it
for me, no one could say a word."

You want to make me ashamed of myself,"
said Olivia, giving a vicious blow to the nail she
was driving in. " But you shan't succeed. My
father and my two brothers think that everything
I do is right."

Ah ! Then it's high time somebody turned
up to prove to you that everything you do is
wrong."

Thank you. My step-mother does that."

'' Then what do papa and the brothers say to
her ? "

'' If the world's turning round depended on
dear old papa's saying a harsh word to anybody,
the world would stand still. As for my brothers,
especially Ted, when he is at home breakfast is
a skirmish with my step-mother, luncheon is a
brisk engagement, and dinner a hard-fought
battle. They are always ordering each other
out of the room, and it's quite a rare thing for
them both to sit out a meal at the same table."

*the fault is not quite all on one side, I
suppose."

Oh, no, of course not. When poor Ted is
away life is not very comfortable, but at least it
is not volcanic."

** Curious that' the common or garden stepmother,
wherever found, should always present
the same characteristics. She has children of
her own, I suppose ? "

Yes, two."

*' You don't love them  I perceive by your
tone."

"Wait till you see them, and then say
whether anybody could'*

I think my professional ministrations are
wanted here. Where is your Christian charity ? "

Olivia turned round to look down upon him
with the most earnest gravity.

I shall take the liberty of asking you the
same question when Eegie gets caressed for his
vivacity in cutting a slit in your umbrella, and
when you see Beatrice consoled with an orange
for some impertinence for which she ought to
have her ears boxed."

And it's all the fault of these-mother ? "

Yes, all."

'poor lady; I am beginning to feel the
deepest interest in her. No doubt she was a
perfectly amiable and harmless person before
this unhappy metamorphosis."

Yes ; she was our governess  a most excellent
woman, and very strict with us."

I must see what can be done for her. I
have a sermon that will just suit her, I think ;
one that hasn't done duty for a long time."

It will be of no use. Wlien she was our
governess she never missed church ; now she's
our step-mother she never goes."

The curtains were by this time hung ; the
two maids from the Vicarage, after helping Lucy
to give the last touches to the arrangement of
the furniture, had run upstairs to see that all
was in order in the bedroom, and perhaps also to
have a little gossip with this new friend. Mr.
Brander looked about eagerly in search of more
work.

There's nothing more to do, I am afraid,"
he said, rather wistfully.

Olivia smiled. ** Afraid ! " she echoed.
Why, I should think you would be very glad
to shake off the dust and the damp of this old
place, and to get back to that beautiful, cosy
room where I found you this evening."

As she spoke an uncomfortable remembrance
of the mystery which hung about the house and
its rumoured connection with him came into her
mind. Mr. Brander looked straight into her
face, and said 

Under some circumstances I might be. For
I knew this place very well before it was left to
dust and damp. But now I am glad to think
that it is going to have life and youth and
brightness in it again  very glad ; and I don't
want to hurry away at all."

He spoke so gravely, and expressed his reluctance
to go so naively, that Olivia was silent,
not quite knowing in what tone to answer him.
Then it suddenly struck him that he might have
offended her, and without looking into her face
again he hastened to say 

You must excuse my boorishness if I don't
express myself in the orthodox way. I live like a
hermit, and have done for the last "  he paused,
and then added slowly, as if counting up the
time  " ten years. I have forgotten how to
make pretty phrases. What I meant was this :
I haven't had half an hour's pleasant talk with
a lady, as I have with you this evening, for all
that time  ten years ! And it will very likely
be ten years before I have another. And so I
have enjoyed myself, and I am sorry it's over,

though I daresay you are rather tired of the
rustic parson and his solecisms."

An awkward constraint had fallen upon him ;
he had grown shy and unhappy. Olivia felt
sorry for him, and she answered in tones of
sweet feminine gentleness which seemed to pour
balm upon some hidden wound.

I believe part of what you say. For if
you had been used to ladies' society you must
have known that talking to you has given meat
least as much pleasure as talking to me can
have given you. And if you are not going to
have another talk with me for another ten years,
as you threaten, it will be your fault, and not
mine."

There was a pretty graciousness in her manner,
the result of the homage her beauty had always
obtained for her. Mr. Brander gave her a shy
glance of adoring gratitude which momentarily
lit up his dark face.

Thank you," he said, in a low voice. " I
shall remember your pretty words and your kind
looks, believe me ; but when we next meet, it

will not be the same, and it will be no fault of
yours'

Olida was on the point of breaking out into
a passionate assurance that no hearsay talk altered
her opinion of her friends ; but a certain gloom
which settled on his face and gave him almost a
forbidding aspect checked her, and she remembered,
while a deep blush crept into her handsome
cheeks, that it is unconventionally premature
to call the acquaintance of half a day a friend.
So she remained modestly silent while he held
out his hand and told her, recovering his usual
manner, that he should write a full description of
her to his sister-in-law, and that Miss Denison
might expect to be chartered as a district visitor
before she had time or inclination to say " Jack
Robinson."

Mr. Brander then called the two maids and
started them on their walk ; brought in a
luncheon basket which he had left in the hall,
and handed it to Lucy, telling her to open it
when her mistress felt inclined for supper ; and,
before Olivia could thank him for this fresh

proof of his kindness, he was ah-eadj out of the
house.

The door had scarcely closed upon him when
Lucy, with an exclamation of horror and disgust,
flung down the luncheon basket, and, running to
the nearest window, threw it wide open.

What are you doing, Lucy ? " asked her
mistress in astonishment, crossing quickly to the
girl to see whether she was ill.

Airing the place, miss, after that bad,
wicked man," answered the little maid, vehemently.


You ungrateful girl, after all Mr. Brander
has done for us. How can you say such things ? "

I say what I know, miss, and what is
known all over the place, miss, to every one but
you," answered Lucy, her face crimson with
excitement. " He's a murderer, miss ; he murdered
the poor girl who used to live in those
rooms upstairs."

Olivia was standing at the window, with her
hand on the latch to close it. Just as Lucy
hissed out those words in a voice shrill and

broken with horror, Mr. Brander passed. The
light from the room fell full upon his face. He
had heard the girl's words. A look, not of indignation,
but of shame, of agony, convulsed his
pale features, but he did not turn his head.
Olivia shivered. She wanted to call out to him,
to ask him to deny this infamous slander; but
her mouth was dry and the words would not
come. For he must have heard, she knew, and
yet there was no denial in his face.

With a trembling hand she closed the window.

** There, it's quite upset you ; I knew it
would, Miss Olivia," said Lucy, rather triumphantly.
" Aren't you shocked ? "

But the tears were gathering in Olivia's eyes.

I'm shocked, yes, of course," said she, sadly.
*' And I'm dreadfully  dreadfully sorry."

Lucy was scandalised. This was not the
way in which she had been taught to look upon
a criminal.

AN OBJECTIONABLE VISITOR.

In spite of all lier philosophy, of all her fortitude,
Olivia Denison could not deny, even to
herself, that the one terrible word " murderer,"
applied to the man who had proved himself
such a kind friend, gave a shock such as no
newly-formed friendship could stand unshaken.
If he had only denied the charge by so much
as a look ! But, on the contrary, his downcast
head and hurrying step when Lucy's
indiscreet remark fell on his ears seemed like
a tacit admission of the justice of it. The
little maid's characteristic comments on the
matter jarred upon her greatly.

You might have knocked me down with
a feather, Miss Olivia, when they first told
me it was him as made away with the young
woman whose rooms we were rummaging in

to-day ! * Lor,' I says, ' never ! A nice-spoken
gentleman like that ! ' Indeed, Miss "

Who was it told you, Lucy ? " interrupted
her mistress, quietly.

It was when I was going up the road,
ma'am, looking for you. For I got that
frightened at last, sitting here all by myself,
and nobody to speak to, and such crackling
and noises as you never heard along the walls !
So I went out a little way, thinking perhaps
you had missed the road and lost yourself.
And I came across two women and a man
standing at the gate of a farmyard. And I
spoke to them, and they guessed where I
came from; for it seems it was the farm
belonging to that rude man, though I didn't
know it at the time. And they asked me in,
saying as they wouldn't keep me not a minute.
And I was so glad not to be alone that I
went just inside the kitchen door with them 
just for a minute. But then they told me
such things that I felt I couldn't come back
to this house all by myself after hearing of

them. They said how that clergyman, for all
his nice seeming ways, used to be a wild sort
of young man, and how he once courted her
that's now the vicar's lady, but she wouldn't
have nothing to say to him. And so when
she married his brother he got wilder and
wilder, and he took to courting the farmer's
daughter that lived here, on the sly like, and
not fair and open. She was a masterful sort
of girl, and her brother and his wife, that she
lived with, let her have her own way too
much, and have ideas above her station. And
people think she believed he'd marry her, for
her own people and every one was beginning
to talk; and then one night  it was the 7th
of July, miss, ten years and a half ago  she
went out to meet him, down by his own church,
as people knew she'd done before, and she
never came back. And nobody's never seen
nothing of her from that day to this ; only
there were screams heard that night down by
St. Cuthbert's  that's his church, ma'am."

Lucy ended in a mysterious whisper, and

both she and her mistress remained silent fora
little while. Then Miss Denison spoke m
a warm and decided tone 

There must have been investigations made.
If there had been anything like just ground
for supposing that Mr. Brander had made
away with the girl, he would at least have
been hunted out of the parish, even if there
had not been proof enough to have him
arrested."

He was arrested. Miss Olivia. But his
mother was Lord Stannington's sister, so he
had friends at court ; and as for his brother,
he moved heaven and earth to have him got
off. And so those as knew most didn't dare
to come forward, and nothing wasn't found;
and as everybody knew the poor girl hadn't
had the best of characters, and had always been
a bit gay like, they said there wasn't evidence
enough, and Mr. Brander was never brought
up."

"But he remained in his parish! That
would have been too much of a scandal if the

suspicion had been strong. I think you have
only been listening to a lot of tattle, Lucy,"
said Miss Denison, trying to disguise the
deep interest she could not help feeling in
this gossip.

Well, Miss Olivia, I only tell you what
was told me'' said the girl, rather offended
at the slur cast upon her information.

And she crossed over to the fireplace and
began to break the lumps of coal into a
blaze, to intimate that, in deference to her
mistress's wish, she had done with idle gossip.
But, as she slyly guessed, the subject was
far too interesting to be shelved like that.

Miss Denison took it up again abruptly,
no longer attempting to hide the warmth of
her feeling in the matter.

How was it he stayed, then? " she asked.

It was his brother's doing, that, ma'am,
I believe," said Lucy, delighted to have her
tongue loosed again. " He backed him up,
and advised him to face it out, so everybody
says. And his being so strong for his brother,

and him thought so highly of himself, made
people afraid to interfere, like. And so Mr.
Vernon stayed. He had only a poor parish,
full of colliers and such like, and the poor
folk liked him, because, for all his wild ways,
he was good humoured and pleasant. So
nobody objected much, and he quieted down
all of a sudden, and grew quite changed, and
worked very hard, so that now they think
the world of him in his own parish, and
wouldn't change even to have Mr. Meredith
himself for their clergyman. Only the story
sticks to him, especially close round here, where
the girl lived ; and, no matter what he does,
some of them can't forget he's a murderer."

Olivia shuddered. It was quite true ; such
an incident in a man's life was not one that
you could forget. She let the subject drop
without further comment, but it haunted her
for the rest of the evening as she sat brooding
over the fire. Lucy, who was of an industrious
frame of mind, got out her darning and mended
away busily. But she had a healthy appetite,
I 2

and she had had nothing more satisfying than
biscuits and a sandwich throughout the day.
Gradually her longing glances fell more and
more frequently on the despised supper basket
which Mr. Brander had given her. At last
she could hold out no longer.

Are you hungry, Miss Olivia? " she asked,
with plaintive meaning.

Not very," answered Miss Denison, waking
with a start out of a troubled reverie. " But
I daresay you are, Lucy. I forgot that I had
wine and cake at  Mr. Brander 's."

Lucy made two hesitating steps in the
direction of the basket, and stopped.

Do you think  we'd better not  touch it,
Miss Olivia ? " she asked, doubtfully.

Miss Denison got up, with a grave and
troubled face.

Don't you think it's a little too late to try
to avoid an obligation, Lucy, when every one of
the comforts round us  fire, chairs, table, the
very beds we are going to sleep on, we owe to
Mr. Brander?"

Lucy snatched at this view of the matter
readily, and trotted off with eager steps to
inspect the contents of the basket. These
proved most satisfactory.

Bread, Miss Olivia ; butter, cake, oh ! And
a cold fowl ! And a silver teapot ! " she announced
gleefully, as she made one discovery
after another, and skipped with her prizes to the
table.

Olivia, healthy girl as she was, could not eat
much that evening. Her responsibilities in the
new home were beginning to look very heavy ;
and the strange story she had just heard oppressed
her. Lucy, on the other hand, found
that a good supper led her to take a more cheerful
view of current affairs.

"Oh, Miss Olivia ! " she exclaimed, when the
meal was ended, and they were preparing to retire
for the night, "how much nicer this is, with
ghosts and murderers and all, than it'll be when
Mrs. Denison comes and the children. Like
this, with just you, it's jolly, and I could work
for you all day. And I suppose when you've

committed a murder it makes you feel that you
must be nicer, like, to make up for it, for
certainly Mr. Brander is a nice-spoken gentleman,
and a kind one, and no two ways about it."

Now, Lucy," said her mistress, gravely,
*' you must put that story right out of your
head, as I am going to do. We'll hope there's
no truth in it at all ; but even if every word were
true, we have no right to bring it up against a
man whose life sets an example to the whole
parish, and who has shown us kindness that we
ought never to forget. I hope you will have the
good sense and good feeling not to tattle about
it to cook and to Esther when they come."

No, ma'am," said Lucy, demurely.

Miss Denison felt, however, that she was
trying to put on human nature burdens too
great for it to bear, and she wasted no more
words in pressing the point. Tired as she was
when she lay down that night on the little bed
so strangely provided, for some hours she could
not sleep ; excited fancies concerning the girl
who had disappeared, and the man to whom her

disappearance was attributed, filled her head with
a waking nightmare. Gratitude remained uppermost,
however.

He shall see that whatever I have heard
makes not the least difference," was her last
clear thought before sleeping.

But Olivia's kind intentions were more difficult
to carry out than she imagined. Next day
she saw nothing of Mr. Brander, although she
received another proof of his thoughtfulness. A
manful of the much-expected furniture arrived in
the course of the morning ; and scarcely was it
emptied before the two maids from the Vicarage
appeared again upon the scene, " by Mr.
Vernon's order," to give what assistance they
could towards getting the house ready for occupation.
Then began for Olivia three of the
happiest days she had ever passed. There was
work  real, useful, genuine work  for head and
hand and muscular arm, in the arrangement of
every room to the best advantage. The maids
from the Vicarage and her own trusted Lucy
seconded her with a right good will, being all

ready to worship this handsome, bright-voiced,
sparkling-eyed girl, to whom the lifting of the
heaviest weights seemed to be child's play, and
who worked harder than any of them. On the
second day the very last consignment of the
household goods duly arrived, and Olivia was
able to send back the Yicarage furniture with a
grateful little note of thanks. In the evening,
when she was resting in an armchair, tired outwith
her labours, and enjoying a glow of satisfaction
in their success, there was a rap of
knuckles on the knockerless outer door, and
Olivia started up, with her heart beating
violently. This persistent self-effacement on the
part of Mr. Brander made the girl nervously
anxious to show him that her gratitude was
proof against any evil rumours ; and the hope
that it was he brought a deep flush to her face
as Lucy, now installed in her own kitchen, and
busy still with polishing of pots and pans, went
to open the door. But she only brought in a
note, which Olivia took with some disappointment.
It was an answer from Mr. Brander to

lier own, but was so very formal that Olivia felt
her cheeks tingle with shame at the impulsive
warmth of her letter.

The clergyman's note was as follows : 

*' Dear Madam " (And she had put " Dear Mr.
Brander." Olivia could have torn her pretty hair. )  " I beg
to assure you there is nothing in what I have done to put
you under any sense of obligation. In doing what little I
could to make you as comfortable as the unfortunate circumstances
of your arrival would permit, I only acted in my
capacity of representative to my brother, who is hospitality
itself to all strangers.

I am, dear madam, yours faithfully,

Vernon Branded."

Olivia read the note twice, while Lucy still
stood at the door.

The young farmer's son brought it, ma'am,
and he's waiting," said she.

Olivia went to the door, and held out her
hand to Mat Oldshaw, who took it very sheepishly
in his own great paw, and, having given ita
convulsive squeeze, dropped it hastily, as if
overwhelmed with horror at his presumption in
touching it at all.

Come in," said she, smiling, and leading
the way into the big farm living-room. She had
decided that this was to be the dining-room of
the establishment, and had furnished it accordingly.


Mat followed her shyly, and remained near
the door until, by easy stages, she had coaxed
him into a chair at the further end. He was
beautifully washed and combed, and clad in his
best clothes, and beautifully awkward and bashful
withal.

"It's very kind of you to bring me this,"
she said, "and I'm very glad to have an opportunity
of thanking you for the help you gave us
the other day. You ran away so fast that I
had no chance of speaking to you."

'Twere nowt that," said Mat, in a voice
husky from bashfulness. " Ah'd ha' coom and
given ye better help than that yesterday when
Ah saw t' goods coom, but Ah didn't like."

Would you ? Well, we should have found
plenty for you to do. But your father wouldn't
have liked it, of course ? "

Feather ! Ah needn't agreed o' feather ! "
cried Mat, in a burst of energetic defiance.
No, it wasna' for him that Ah didn't coom.
But Ah thowt maybe we'd ha' been so angry
with him for's rudeness that ye wouldn't care to
ha' seen me ageean."

"Oh, I knew you had nothing to do with
that."

That's true enoof ; and Ah coom to-neeght
to say "  and Mat looked down on the floor and
grew scarlet to the tips of his ears  " that ye
mustn't be surprised if things don't work
straight here at first. Feather' s a nasty coos-tower
when he's crossed, and there's no denying
he's wild at a stranger takkin' this place. An'
if he can do ye and yer feather an ill turn he's
not t' man to stick at it. An' if yer feather
don't know mooch about farming', ye may tell
him not to tak' any advice from moine. But if
ye should be in a difficulty about matters o' t'
farm, ye can just send for me on t' quiet, and
Ah '11 help ye all Ah can. Ah needn't over
bright, maybe, as ye can see for yeursen, miss,

but Ah understand t' farm, and what Ah can do
for ye Ah will."

Mat had strung himself up to this speech by
a great effort, and he reeled it off without any
sort of pause, as if it had been an article of faith
that he had got by rote. Then he got up and
gave a hopeless look towards the door, as if that
was his goal, and he was utterly without an idea
how to reach it.

Olivia rose too, and turned towards the fire.
Her impulsive nature was so deeply moved by
this rough but genuine friendliness, that she had
no words ready to express her feelings.

There was a pause, during which she heard
the shuffling of Mat's feet upon the floor as he
prepared himself, with many throes, for another
rhetorical effort. As she at last turned towards
him and again held out her hand, he found his
courage, and began 

"An' wan moor thing Ah'd like to say,
miss ; don't you be agreed o' parson Brander,
for all they may say. Of course, ye're heard t'
story ; t' ill about a mon always rooms foot first.

Maybe t' story's true ; Ah know nowt about
that. But Ah do know that there's ne'er a
heart like his in t' country-side. An' he's done
all t' harm he'll ever do to anybody. An'  an'
he give me this note for ye, miss, and Ah've
given it, and noo Ah'm going. Good-night,
miss."

With which abrupt farewell he made a
countryman's obeisance to her, and sheered off
with great promptitude.

Good-night. I shan't forget what you've
said," Olivia called after him, smiling.

She sat down again to muse by the fire,
holding the open letter still in her hand; and
after a few minutes, being utterly tired out with
the day's work, she fell asleep. When she woke
up she could not resist an exclamation of horror,
for she saw confronting her, in the dim firelight,
an ugly, grinning face, the owner of which
broke into a peal of hoarse laughter in enjoyment
of the shock his presence caused her.
Starting to her feet, Olivia woke up to the full
consciousness that the ill-favoured intruder was

no other than her persecutor of two nights
before. While she was gathering up her forces
for a withering speech, Mr. Williams gave her a
smile and a nod of friendly greeting.

You didn't expect to see me, did you ? " he
began, in a perfectly amicable tone.

I certainly did not. Nor can I say that I
wished for that  honour," answered Olivia, with
what ought to have been withering sarcasm.

But Mr. Williams grinned on, entirely unmoved.


*' No ; you thought you'd shut me up 
choked me off for good, didn't you ? Why, I've
got brambles and splinters in every finger still.
But I liked you for it. Oh, I do like a girl of
spirit ! Why, there isn't a girl about the place I
haven't tried to annoy, and not one of them has
had the pluck to round on me as you did. But,
then, look at your muscle, you know," he
added, admiringly.

"I'm exceedingly grateful for your admiration,
and I will try to deserve it," answered Olivia,
briefly.

She walked rapidly to the door, which she
threw wide open with a gesture of invitation to
him to go out. Mr. Williams instantly got
behind an armchair.

'* No, no, I know you can throw me out
if you want to, but just let me stay and explain.
Look what a shrimp I am compared with you.
You can't mind me," pleaded he.

The sight of the little sandy man clinging to
the back of the armchair, and " dodging " any
movement of hers which he imagined to be
threatening, caused Olivia's just indignation to
merge into a strong inclination to laugh. She
remained standing by the door, drawn up to her
full height, and said, very drily 

I suppose it is of no use to talk to you
about the feelings of a gentleman. But perhaps
you can understand this ; I consider you an
odious person, and I wish you to go."

"That's just the impression I wish to stay
and remove," said Mr. Williams, blandly.

You won't remove it by staying," said Miss
Denison.

As for the feelings of a gentleman,"
pursued lie, ignoring her interpolation, '' of
course you are quite right. I haven't got them ;
I don't know what they're like, and I don't want
to. I'm a hopeless little cad, if you like, though
nobody but you and the parson would dare to
call me so, because I'm coming into a hundred
and eighty thousand pounds. Doesn't it make
your mouth water  180,000 ? 'It does make
a difference, don't it, say what you like, in the
way you look at a fellow ? "

It does," said Miss Denison. " It makes
one shudder to think of so much money being
in the hands of a person who is not competent to
make a right use of half-a-crown.

Why, I never thought of it in that light,"
said the gentleman, leaning over the back of the
armchair, and caressing his chin musingly.
But, look here, I may marry, and she will
think she knows how to make a right use of it,
I'll warrant."

This speech he accompanied by a look
which was meant to be full of arch meaning.

Miss Denison took no notice either of speech or
look.

Now, are you going  of your own
accord ? " she asked, firmly, and rather
menacingly.

I don't know how you ever expect to get
married if you cut a fellow so short when he's
getting near the brink of a proposal."

Now, are you going ? "

Yes, yes," said he, hastily, as she made one
step towards him ; "I'm going. Though I
don't see why I should be the only man turned
out, when I'll bet I'm the only one with matrimonial
intentions."

You don't consider that you are the only
one with the audacity to spy upon me, and to
enter this house like a burglar."

Now how did you guess that ? Why, you
must have been only shamming sleep, then,
when I hung on to the window-sill outside, and
saw you looking so invitingly like Cinderella
that I was obliged to come in to get a nearer
view."

Miss Denison was breathless with indignation.
He continued 

As for spying, I'm not the only one. I've
caught the parson prowling about here these two
evenings. And, look here, of course I saw from
the first you liked him better than me, and now
you have heard the story about him, no doubt
you think him more interesting than ever.
But I don't intend to be snubbed for a murderer.
And so I tell you this. Miss Denison : if you
are any more civil to him than you are to me,
I'll just spread abroad something I know and
that nobody else knows, and that is : how he
disposed of the body of the first poor girl who
was unlucky enough to have anything to do
with him. And perhaps that will stop you from
being the second."

With these words Mr. Williams came out
from his place of refuge behind the armchair,
and keeping at a respectful distance from
the fair but stalwart arm which he had
already learnt to fear, sidled out of the room
with a swaggering bow. He looked back,

however, when he was safely outside the
door.

Don't lose heart," he said. " I shall make
you another offer some day; perhaps half-a-dozen.
They'll come to be your one amusement
in this hole."

With this delightful promise, Mr. Frederick
Williams opened the front door and let himself
out, leaving his involuntary hostess unable to
distinguish which feeling was strongest in her
breast  amusement or disgust at an impudence
which she might well consider unparalleled.

And that vague, insolent threat of his, what
did it mean ? Could he really know anything
about the mystery concerning the girl Ellen
Mitchell ?

SAINT cuTH Bert's churchyard.

There was no denying that the arrival of these
two spirited young women had caused a great
flutter among the bachelors of Eishton and its
neighbourhood. For it is to be noted that if,
on the one hand, the remarkable beauty of the
mistress attracted the attentions of the elite of
the male population, the rosy cheeks and saucy
independence of the maid began very soon to
make havoc in humbler masculine hearts, so that
by the time Sunday came round, and with it the
great weekly gathering time, the whole village
was in a mild ferment of excitement over the
prospect of a close inspection of the strangers 
and in their best clothes.

The little church stood on the very summit
of the hill on the slope of which one side of the
village lay. Its foundations and part of its
walls were very ancient ; but after having been

allowed to fall into neglect and decay, it had
been carefully restored, under its present vicar,
into a faultlessly trim and yet picturesque little
building, the fanciful grey stone tower of which
could be seen from the Matherham high road,
rising like a coronet above the trees which, grew
thickly on the crest of the hill. The churchyard
was kept like a garden. One of its gates led to
the Vicarage, one end of which overlooked it ; a
second led through fields by a long and circuitous
route down to the village ; the third and
principal entrance opened on to a little green,
well shaded by trees, on which, close under the
churchyard wall, the old village stocks, green
with damp and a trifle infirm from age and neglect,
stolidly survived their time of active service.
A long, two-storeyed cottage, green with
untrimmed ivy and yew trees, which were suffered
to overshadow the small windows, stood at
right angles with the Vicarage, facing the green.
Leaning over the wall of the front garden was a
weather-beaten board, bearing the information
that the cottage was " To let."

When Olivia, attended by the faithful Lucy,
arrived at the church on Sunday morning, she
was at once accosted by the clerk, a small and
sanctimonious-looking old man, who smelt of
spirits, and inducted into a seat close under the
pulpit, which was, he informed her in a loud
whisper, " the 'all pew." It was too far forward
for Olivia to be able to see many of her
fellow-worshippers, but one party, occupying
the opposite pew to hers, could not fail to catch
her eye. It consisted of two very showily
dressed young women, who entered with much
rustling and whispering, and were a long time
settling themselves ; of a much younger brother
and sister, whom they hustled into a very small
corner of the pew ; and of Mat Oldshaw, who
occupied the outside seat, and who appeared to
be bashfully conscious the whole time of Miss
Denison's presence, though he never once dared
to look in her direction.

Olivia was one of the first of the congregation
to arrive, and in the interval before the
service commenced she could not help regarding

with some interest such of her new neighbours
as came within her range of vision. The Old-shaw
family, with the exception of Mat, she
knew she should not like, but in a large pew in
front of them sat a lady whose appearance attracted
her greatly. She was not very young or
very pretty ; she was dressed with great simplicity
in a dark costume and a long sealskin
jacket ; and the word by which a stranger would
have described her was " lady-like." It was impossible
to help contrasting her with the two
fidgety women behind ; and Olivia was growing
more and more sure that she should like to know
her, when, to her surprise, she suddenly heard a
loud, hoarse whisper, " Here, gee up, Soosan,"
and looking round, she saw the quiet-looking
lady move up the pew at the behest of the odious
Frederick Williams.

As Olivia turned her head, she met this
3oung man's admiring eyes turned upon her
with their usual vacant stare. He was attired
this morning like the " swell " of the comic
scenes of a pantomime, the salient points of his

costume being an overcoat lined with otter,
a pink-striped shirt, light gaiters, and brick-coloured
gloves. Olivia fancied also that he
had had his hair curled. He bestowed upon
Miss Denison a nod, a smile, and a wink, and
appeared quite unabashed by the fact that she
vouchsafed him no sign of recognition in return.
He ensconced himself in the outer corner of the
pew, and watched her persistently until a heavy
and measured tread up the aisle, followed by
short, pattering steps, announced two newcomers,
and he had to make way for an elderly
couple whom Olivia rightly guessed to be his
parents.

Not that they bore any but the faintest
family likeness to Olivia's dashing admirer.
The gentleman was an erect and handsome man
of sixty or more, pompous and dignified; his
wife was short, stout, good-humoured-looking,
and well dressed. Just as she noticed these
facts the church bells ceased ringing, and a small
choir of surpliced boys came out of the vestry,
followed by Mr. Yernon Brander.

Isn't lie a dear? " Miss Denison heard one
of the fidgety ladies whisper to the other, enthusiastically.


Mr. Brander conducted the service with no
assistance hut that of the choir and the clerk,
who was evidently a privileged person ; for he
put everybody out who was within a dozen feet
of his nasal voice. Olivia was impressed by the
sermon, but she was hardly sure whether the
impression was altogether favourable. For the
preacher did not speak " as one having authority,"
but rather as the servant than the teacher
of his hearers ; as one who was bound to keep
them in mind of truths which they knew
already, rather than as one who held up their
duty before them with all the weight of a respected
and honoured pastor.

When the service was over, Olivia lingered a
little in the churchyard, looking at the gravestones,
not unwilling to give the much-discussed
Mr. Brander an opportunity of proving that no
rumours could affect her behaviour to one who
had been kind to her; but he would not avail

himself of it. On coming out of the church,
which he did with extraordinarily little delay,
Mr. Brander seemed purposely to avoid glancing
towards the spot where she was standing, but at
once, with quick steps, made for the gate at
which the lady, whose appearance had attracted
Olivia, was waiting. Her party, including the
ill-mannered Frederick, had gone, as they had
come, without her.

Olivia, who, like all young girls, could see a
great deal without looking, knew that the clergyman
and the lady were talking about her, and
she would not pass out at the gate while they
stood there. So she continued her inspection of
the tombstones, with a heart beating rather
faster than usual, for the very few minutes that
the iete-a-teie lasted. Now, surely, she might
have a chance of speaking to him ; in common
civility he would come, if only, as his note expressed
it, " as his brother's representative," to
ask how she was getting on with her furnishing,
and whether her friends were coming soon to
relieve her of her responsibilities. He passed

quite near to her on his way to the Vicarage
gate. She raised her head with a smile and
a heightened colour, ready to give him her
prettiest greeting; but he looked away with a
persistency which she could no longer doubt was
intentional, and it was with a blush of the
deepest mortification that Olivia, whose burning
eyes no longer saw inscriptions, or tombstones,
or anything but a particularly tactless and unobservant
clergyman, whose conduct in not
allowing her to lessen her obligation to him by
an expression of her gratitude was, Olivia felt,
highly reprehensible. She was so hurt, so indignant,
that when the pleasant-looking lady,
who stood by the gate and watched her approach,
made a movement forward as if to
address the young stranger, Olivia turned her
head away. She would give no opening to the
friend of the man who had so deeply offended
her.

But anger in Olivia's breast was a feeling
which could not last. Before she was half-way
down the hill she was sorry for her hasty action

and ashamed of her disappointment. With the
exaggerated feeling of an impulsive young girl,
she blamed herself as ungracious and ungrateful,
and decided that the avoidance of a man as
kindly and chivalrous as Mr. Brander had proved
himself to be could only proceed from the most
honourable motives.

The observant Lucy perhaps detected a
lightening of the cloud on her young mistress's
face, for at this point of the latter's reflections
she broke the silence she had discreetly kept
since leaving the churchyard.

It's a lot to do to take the service here in
the morning, and at St. Cuthbert's in the afternoon,
and a young men's class four miles away
at night, isn't it, ma'am ? " she asked, glibly.

Lucy had already collected as much local
information as if she had been settled in Eishton
three months, and could have enlightened Miss
Denison on a good many points of local gossip if
she had been encouraged to do so.

'' Why, who does all that, Lucy ? "

Mr. Brander, ma'am. He holds a meeting

of colliers belonging to some pit at night, and he
says * he goes to them because they wouldn't all
come to him.' "

Olivia looked at her in astonishment. Here
was the little maid quoting with perfect confidence
the clergyman's own words.

But how did you pick up all this information
? "

Oh, one hears things, ma'am," said Lucy,
who was an inveterate gossip, but who did not
care to own that butcher, grocer, old woman at
the village shop, nay, even the small boy who
brought the afternoon ha'porth of milk from
Mrs. Briggs', who kept a cow at the other end
of the village, all were laid under contribution to
keep her well informed. "And they do say.
Miss Olivia, that the difference between St.
Cuthbert's Church and this is something which
must be seen to be believed," she added.

Miss Denison said nothing to this. She herself
was longing to see St. Cuthbert's, and would
have found out the place and gone to service
there that very afternoon if a feeling of shyness

had not restrained her. Church once a day had
always been enough for her at Streatham ; therefore
it could only be curiosity which was urging
her to break through her custom now, she said to
herself. So she stayed at home that afternoon,
and wrote reluctantly enough to her father to
tell him that everything was ready for the
arrival of the rest of the family. If only Mrs.
Denison would take it into her head that the
air of Yorkshire was too keen for her sensitive
frame, and would allow papa to come without her,
what a happy life they two might lead together,
thought Olivia. She loved her easy-going
father passionately, and as passionately resented
the subjection in which he was kept by his
second wife; but her Utopian dream was not to
be fulfilled. On the Wednesday following she
received a long letter from her step-mother,
announcing that they would all arrive next day,
and giving rambling but minute directions as to
the preparation for their coming.

Olivia put down the letter with a sigh, called
Lucy, and in a doleful voice informed her that

the reign of peace and freedom was nearly over.
The little maid's face fell.

"Lor, Miss Olivia, how she will fuss and
dorrit, to make up for not being able to get at
us for a week ! " was her first comment.

Well, we must try to give her no cause,"
said Olivia, trying to keep grave.

She'd find cause to grumble, miss, if she
was in heaven, and we was all angels a-flyin'
about of her errands. I'll warrant before she's
been in the house ten minutes she'll take a fancy
to the scullery for her bedroom, and say that we
ought to have made this room the coal-cellar,"
said Lucy, with ill-humour that was not all
affected.

There was enough truth in the girl's comic
sketch for Olivia to give a sigh at the prospect,
though she stifled it instantly, and started briskly
on a tour of the house to see whether she had left
any loophole for complaints on the part of her
step-mother. She could find none. She had
prepared the largest and best room for her father
and Mrs. Denison; the next best for the two

children ; the third in order of merit she had
fitted up as the spare room, leaving only two little
rooms scarcely larger than cupboards, the one
for herself, and the other for her brother Ernest,
on his rare visits. The two rooms in the wing
she left unappropriated and untouched, not from
any superstitious scruples, for she would have
liked the larger one for herself ; but she knew
that if she were to take possession of it, her stepmother
would certainly never cease " nagging '*
at her for helping herder to so spacious a room.

Thursday morning came, and Olivia rose
with a doleful sense that the fun and freedom of
the week were nearly over. Her energies had
found delightful vent in the unaccustomed work
and responsibility ; she began to feel that even
if she had been still in the old home at Streets
a contented return to lawn tennis and
crewel work would have been impossible. Would
Mrs. Denison, who was lazy as well as fretful,
and who would now have to do without a housekeeper,
be inclined to trust her with the reins of
management ? As Olivia had always until now

been known to have the utmost horror of any
household duties, she was not without a hope
that, if she kept secret the change in her own
feelings, Mrs. Denison might herself make
some such proposal, being amiably anxious to
make those around her feel as acutely as she did
herself the alteration in the family fortunes.

They were to arrive about six o'clock.
Olivia, who was only anxious to see her father,
would not go to meet them. She would get old
papa all to himself in the evening, and have a
long talk, and tell him all her adventures. He
was not himself while within range of the querulous
voice and cold eyes of his second wife.
Olivia thought she would have a very early
dinner and a long walk to brace herself for her
fall from autocracy. So at two o'clock she was
on the Sheffield Eoad, walking fast against a
keen wind, under a leaden sky that promised
snow within a few hours. She did not care for
that. Protected by a hooded waterproof and a
thick pair of boots, the healthy girl was quite
ready to do battle with rain, snow, or wind ; and

K

the object of her walk was quite interesting
enough for her to think little of the cold.

OHvia was going to St. Cuthbert's. She
knew where the church was. She had seen its
dilapidated, patched-up tower, a very marvel of
makeshift architecture, far away on the plain
below her as she walked to Matherham by the
longest and prettiest road. After walking for
about a mile and a half along this road, which
was on high ground, and afforded a wide view of
hill and plain, she had only to turn to the left
and descend the hill by a steep and narrow lane,
and walk on until she came to it. A feeling of
shyness brought the bright blood to the girl's
cheeks as she turned into the lane. She hoped
she should not meet Mr. Brander. The whisper
of one of the Misses Oldshaw in church on
Sunday had made known that it was the, fashion
among a section of the village ladies to worship
him ; and Miss Denison, having always held
curate adorers " in stern and lofty contempt,
was most anxious not to be confounded with that
class. It was just the time, however, when she

thought an active clergyman would be going his
rounds in the parish.

She had indeed met no one the whole way
except a lame tramp, who was approaching her
alone: the Sheffield Eoad as she turned into the
lane. The whole country-side seemed to be
asleep, except for the occasional distant shriek of
a railway engine as it disappeared between the
hills a mile away.

At last Olivia drew near to the church
and the Vicarage, standing together, with no
other buildings near, on a slightly rising ground
in the centre of the plain. The Vicarage came
first. It was a large, plain, hideous house, like
a great stone box, sheltered by no ivy and no
trees, with an uncared-for square of garden in
front of it, and a plain stone wall all round.
Only three of the windows in the front part of
the house were curtained; the rest were blank
and bare, as if the place had been uninhabited.
Close to the garden wall came the churchyard,
a mildewed wilderness in which broken and
displaced headstones had been suffered to take

K 'Z

what positions they pleased, and lay flat, or
stood sideways, or leaned against each other
without hindrance. The church itself was the
most extraordinary pile Olivia had ever seen. It
was built of stone, and very, very old and
ruinous. But no care, no taste, no skill, had
been for years employed in its restoration. As
harm came to it from wear or weather, it had
simply been repaired in the cheapest and speediest
way with whatever substance came first to
hand. Thus, the glass of one window having
been irretrievably damaged, had been replaced by
bricks, which filled up the blank spaces between
the scarcely injured tracery. In the early years
of the century, a storm had brought down the
central tower, which in its fall had crashed
through the roof of the south aisle, breaking
through the outer wall and making one-third of
the whole church an almost shapeless ruin. As
that storm had left it, so through sixty years it
had remained, with only this difference, that
the shattered tower had been brought up to
the height of a few feet above the roof with

irregular layers of wood and brick and stone, and
surmounted by a pointed roof of slate ; while the
spaces between the arches on the southern side of
the nave had been bricked up to form an outer
wall to the church, leaving the ruined aisle outside
exposed to every chance of wind and weather.
At the south-east corner a portion of the roof,
no longer either very solid or very safe, still kept
in its place. At the south-west angle a rough
hole in the ground and a dozen rude and broken
steps had formerly led into a small crypt with a
vaulted roof, which extended about half-way
under the southern aisle ; but the opening-having,
not without reason, been declared dangerous,
had been filled up, ten years ago, with
bricks and stones and earth, over which the grass
and weeds had now grown.

The gate of the churchyard was locked ; but
Olivia was not going to be deterred by such an
obstacle from the closer inspection her curiosity
craved. Choosing a place where the high stonewall
had irregularities on its rough surface
large enough to afford a footing, she climbed to

the top, and let herself down with a jump among
the gravestones on the other side. The three
doors of the church were also locked ; this she
had expected. She made the tour of the building
very slowly, trying to decipher the dates on the
weather-beaten head-stones. Before she had
gone half-way round, the snow, which had been
threatening all day, began to fall in large flakes,
so that, by the time she had again reached
the ruined aisle, Olivia was glad to take shelter
under the remaining bit of the old roof. This
formed a very complete place of refuge, fora
sort of inner buttress had been formed with
some of the loose stones which supported
the remaining portions of wall and roof,
and made the enclosed corner safe from wind
or rain. She was debating whether it would
not be wiser to make the best of her way
home at once, in spite of the snow, before
the short day began to draw in, when she
heard the key turn in the lock of the gate,
and, peeping between the stones, saw the
Eeverend Yernon Brander enter, and leaving

the gate open behind him, disappear round
the west end of the church. From his grave,
stern, absorbed expression, Olivia guessed that
he was unaware of the presence of another
human being. In a few minutes she heard
the rattle of the key in the lock of the northwest
door of the church, and then Mr. Brander's
tread on the stone floor inside.

Olivia did not wish to meet him. She
decided to wait a few minutes, in case he
should only have gone in to fetch something
; she could hear him walking about,
opening the ventilators of some of the windows
and closing those of others ; then for a few
minutes she heard no further sound. She would
escape now, while he was engaged inside. Just
as she was drawing the hood over her hat,
preparing for a smai-t walk back through the
snow, she caught sight of another figure at the
gate, whom she recognised as the lame tramp
she had seen near the entrance of the lane. He
was a man whose age it was impossible to determine,
with coarse features, and an expression

not devoid of intelligence. He had a wooden
leg, and walked, moreover, with the aid of a
stick.

Olivia was so much struck by the expression
of vivid interest and curiosity with which
he scanned every object round him, from the
shambling tower above to the gravestones at his
feet, that, instead of coming out from her
shelter, she remained watching him, convinced
that the place had some special interest for
him. That interest her mind connected, with
a lightning flash of vivid perception, with the
story of Nellie Mitchell's disappearance. The
man came towards the ruined aisle, treading
more slowly and cautiously with every step,
and gradually turning his attention entirely
to the ground on which he trod. He did
not come so far as the roofed corner, but suddenly
turned his steps back in the direction of
the blocked-up entrance to the crypt. Against
the roughly piled stones he struck his stick
sharply, with an abrupt exclamation in a loud
and grating voice.

Just at the moment he uttered this, Mr.
Brander appeared round the western corner.
His pale face turned to a livid colour and
his lips twitched convulsively at sight of the
man, whom he appeared instantly to recognise.
The tramp, on his side, took matters much
more lightly. Saluting the clergyman with a
touch of his cap, he said, in a voice which
became hoarse in his endeavour to make it mysterious


Eh, Mester Brander, but it's a long time
since we've met. Eleven year come next seventh
of July."

Olivia held her breath ; the seventh of
July was the date of Nellie Mitchell's disappearance.
She would have given the world
to run away, to escape hearing what she knew
must be a confession ; but there was no way
out except by passing the two men. Brave
as she was, Olivia dared not face them. She
shrank back in her corner and vainly tried not
to hear.

A HALF-HEARD SECRET.

There was a long pause after the tramp had
addressed Mr. Brander. In spite of herself, Olivia
found herself at last holding her breath with impatience
to hear the clergyman's answer. She
would not look at him, although through the
gaps in the rough stonework she might easily
have done so ; but her hands, with which she
had at first tried to stop her ears, fell down at
her sides. When at last he spoke, Mr. Brander 's
voice was low and husky, affected by some strong
feeling.

Yes, Abel, it's a long time  a very longtime."


The blood rushed to Olivia's face, and her
cold hands stole together ; there was something
in the vicar's voice which told so clearly of years
of keen suffering that a great throb of pity wrung
the girl's heart ; and she hoped, as eagerly as if

the matter affected her personally, that this tramp
would keep his secret.

"Ay," said Abel, in whose tones, to do him
justice, there was no malignity. " AhVe kept
ma word, parson. Ah promised ye that neeght
as Ah'd go on straight wi'out resting hereabouts.
An' on Ah went, and Ah nivver said nowt, and
AhVe nivver been nigh t' place from that day
to this. Now that's straight dealing', parson,
ain't it ? "

Yes, Abel; I always knew you for a straight
man''

Mr. Brander spoke gravely and appreciatively,
but there was no undue humility in his tone, as
of a man demanding mercy. Abel resumed.

Ay, parson, so I be. Ah'm not mooch of a
Christian, as tha knows, an' if so be a mon treats
ma ill, Ah like to be even wi' him. But if so
be a mon treats ma fair. Ah treat him fair back.
An' tha's treated ma more nor fair, parson, mony's
the time. An' so, when tha says, ' Shut tha
mouth an' mak' no guesses, Ah shuts ma mouth,
an' Ah don't guess nowt."

What brings you here now, then ? " asked
Mr. Brander, abruptly, with perceptible anxiety
in his tone.

Well, parson, tha knows Ah wur born and
bred hereabouts. An' though Ah been fond o'
tramping' it i' ma time, Ah'm not so spry-like as
Ah wur, an' Ah'd like to settle in t'pleace where
Ah wur bred."

"You've saved some money, then?" asked
Mr. Brander, as sharply as before.

Not so mooch, not so mooch, mester, but
Ah don't count to end ma days in an eight-doomed
villa, like t' gentlefolk."

There was a pause, and then the vicar spoke
in a constrained tone, in which the effort to repress
some strong feeling was more manifest than
ever.

'' And if I ask you not to settle here, Abel,
but to pitch your tent for the remainder of your
days somewhere else, what would you do ? Come,
I don't want to throw in your face what I've done
for you, but what would you do ? "

Olivia heard the man clearing his throat

undecidedly, and kicking with his wooden leg
against the gravestones.

*' You don't trust ma, parson, an' it's a bit
hard, after howdin' ma tongue nigh eleven year.
Eh, but if Ah'd wanted to ha' spoke, wasn't Ah
ha spoke afore now? "

*' If you had wanted to speak about the business,
I should never have wasted my breath
asking you not to," said Mr. Brander, with decision.
" I trust you, Abel, as much as one man
may trust another. But judging you as I should
judge myself, I say it would be impossible for you
to live in this neighbourhood, where that night's
occurrences are still continually being raked up
and discussed, without its leaking out that you
were here on that night, and that you met me.
That, as you know, I wish to keep secret."

But, parson," began the man slowly, in a
troubled tone

Mr. Brander interrupted him.

Now we've nothing further to discuss, Abel,
I want the whole story forgotten."

*' But it's not a whole story, Mester Brander,

an' that's why it nivver will be forgotten. Ita
mystery to all but  to everybody ; an' until
t' fowl know what become o' Nellie Mitchell, a
mystery it'll be, an' they'll talk abaft it. Why,
parson, dost know t' tales as goes round ? "

What do tales matter as long as they are
only idle ones ? " said Mr. Brander, hastily.
Now, Abel Squires, which is it to be ? Is the
parson to have his way, or has he been wasting
his breath?"

He maun ha' his way. Ah reckon ; but Ah
tell tha, parson, it's all no use. It'll be none o'
ma coin', but  murder will ait, tha knows."

He dropped his voice to a low, portentous
whisper for the last words.

Murder ! " echoed Mr. Brander, also in a
low voice. '' What are you talking about ?
Didn't I tell you it was not murder ? "

Ay, that tha did," said Abel, rather
drily.

And did you see anything ? "

Well, not that neeght, but next day "

Ah ! " ejaculated Mr. Brander, sharply.

Then you didn't keep your word : you didn't
go straight on ! "

The man's answer came deliberately.

"Ah went straight on that neeght, mester,
as Ah told tha Ah would. But Ah coom back
next morning'. It wur only human nature'; an'
Ah took a look round. Ay, parson, Ah hid
summit as would ha told a tale."

'what was that?" asked Mr. Brander,
slowly, and, as it seemed, with difficulty.

There wur marks on those steps down tot'
crypt as is now blocked op. An' down at t'
bottom. An' Ah tramped 'em ait. An' there
war marks in another place as Ah made away.
An' it wur all for ye, parson, for Ah thowt of
what we'd done for ma when Ah wur ill and nobody
to care for ma, an' Ah did what Ah could."

You're a good fellow, Abel," said Mr.
Brander, huskily, after a few moments' pause.
And you've been a good friend to me."

Ah, Mester Brander, but Ah'd ha liked to
ha' served ye a better way," said the man, who
seemed affected in his turn.

The vicar silenced him with a peremptory
Sh-sh." Then he said

You won't be able to get far to-night on
foot. It will be snowing heavily in an hour
from now. You must get home by train tonight."


Olivia guessed that he must have put money
into the man's hand, for Abel Squires answered
reluctantly 

Ah don't tak' it for holding ma tongue,
parson. But if ye want ma to go further, it's
but fair ye should pay for it. Here's good-day
to you sir, and may you nivver "

The voices were growing fainter. Olivia
peeped between the stones for the first time, and
saw that the oddly assorted couple were making
their way among the ruined gravestones to the
gate, where the vicar shook hands with the tramp,
who went back up the lane towards the Sheffield
Road as fast as his wooden leg would let him.
Mr. Brander stood at the gate until long after
Abel had disappeared from sight at a bend of the
lane. His back was towards Olivia, and all that

she could see was that he remained extraordinarily
still. The snow, which from a few feathery
flakes had gradually thickened into a blinding
storm, grew at last so dense that no mental abstraction
could shut it out. The vicar suddenly
threw back his head, and apparently taking in
the fact that he was getting wet through, gave
himself a violent shake to get rid of the white
covering which already enveloped him, turned
and walked rapidly back to the church.

As soon as Olivia heard the rattle of the
lock, she sprang out of her shelter, struggling
with her umbrella as she went, hurried over
the uneven ground within the ruined aisle,
where a few minutes before Mr. Brander and
the tramp had been standing, and steering
rapidly and neatly between the broken and
scattered tombstones, reached the gate in very
few seconds. As she flitted quickly through,
however, a gust of wind blew the skirt of her
waterproof against the bars of the gate, which
swung to behind her with a loud creaking
noise. She ran on, and in a minute was out

L

of sight to any one at the church door, hidden
by the churchyard wall. But Mr. Brander,
hearing the noise, and being naturally rather
startled by the idea that some one had been
about during his very private conversation with
Squires, was too quick for her. He was out
of the church and on the track of the intruder
before she had got many steps up the lane.
She was just past the bend when he suddenly
came up with her. One umbrella and
waterproof woman in a snowstorm is so like
another that he had not the slightest idea
who his quarry was until he had passed her
and turned to look back. As he did so he
caught sight of her face, and instantly stopped.

Olivia stopped too, and holding back her
umbrella, met his glance with a frank, straight
gaze. He raised his hat, seemed about to speak
to her, but hesitated. She smiled, and held
out her hand. He saw at once that this was
not the ordinary greeting of an acquaintance
she was tendering him. The muscles about
her mouth were quivering, and her eyes, as

they met his for a moment, before dropping
modestly, were luminous with generous feeling,
maidenly shame struggling with womanly
sympathy. Mr. Brander took her hand with
some constraint. As he touched it, however,
something in the firm clasp of the girl's fingers
gave him confidence.

*' Miss Denison," he said, gravely, while his
keen black eyes seemed to read the thoughts
in her brain before they were uttered, " you
have been in the churchyard. Where were

you?"

The blood, which was already crimson in
Olivia's cheeks, mounted to her forehead, until
her whole face was aglow. Her eyes fell, and
it was in a low, almost faltering voice, that
she answered 

I was in the ruined part of the church,
where the roof is left."

Mr. Brander was startled by this confession.

He did not at once speak, being evidently

occupied in trying to recall the very words of

the conversation she must have overheard. But

l2

he soon gave up that attempt, and asked,
impatiently 

Then you heard  what? "

Olivia's breath came almost in sobs, as she
answered at once, with bent head, and almost
in a whisper 

I heard nearly all you said  you and the
man. I am very, very sorry and ashamed, and
I ask your pardon. But I did not dare to come
out while you were there. I hoped to get
away without your seeing me."

'but what did I say? What did he say?
What did you understand by it all ? " asked he,
so eagerly that he almost seemed to be bullying
her.

Oh, I don't know. Pray don't ask me.'
I don't want to remember. I would rather
forget it all. I never meant that a word about
it should pass my lips, and it will not after
this," said she, hurriedly, without looking up.

Mr. Brander said nothing to this at first,
and Olivia, raising her head to steal a look
at his face, judged by his expression that he

was in the throes of some terrible mental
struggle, the outcome of which would be some
passionate outburst. But he recovered command
of himself, and when he at last spoke to her,
it was in a very quiet voice.

I am keeping you standing in the snow.
Miss Denison; I must not do that. But we
must come to a word of understanding now ;
it will put us on a right footing for the
future."

You need not say another word to me,
Mr. Brander," interrupted Olivia, vehemently.
'' The understanding between us is clear enough;
you are a most warm-hearted gentleman, and
have shown me more delicate kindness than
I ever received in my life; I am, and shall
be as long as you let me, your grateful friend.
What understanding do you want more than
that?"

Her clear young voice rang out with enthusiastic
warmth, which threw the clergyman
off his balance. He began to tremble like a
leaf, and again his thin, mobile face showed

signs of emotion within him. But he still kept
it under restraint, and spoke in a perfectly-steady
voice.

"Thank you; I expected generosity from
you. But  do you quite understand the
position I am in, I wonder? Did you understand
that man  that tramp  is keeping a
secret for me ? "

Yes," answered Olivia, steadily.

And you are aware of its nature ? "

The girl drew a deep breath, but she
answered bravely, though in a low voice,
Yes."

"And after that, and after hearing everything
that you have heard, that you must
have heard, about this miserable story, you
still are ready to call yourself  my friend? "

He kept his voice at the same quiet pitch,
but on the last two words it broke a little.
There was a pause of only a few seconds.

Then Olivia answered in a veritable whisper,
but with the same sweet and dignified seriousness,
" Yes, Mr. Brander."

She might reasonably have expected some
acknowledgment of the gracious, womanly
daring of this speech ; but instead of giving
any sign of gratitude, Mr. Brander, to
her astonishment, turned upon her quite
sharply.

Well, that's Quixotic, illogical, pretty,
perhaps, from a boarding-school young lady's
point of view, but not worthy of a woman of
sense."

Olivia was surprised, but she was true
woman enough to have her answer.

I think I can justify it," she said, holding
her head back rather obstinately.

'' Yery well. Justify yourself for being
ready to make friends with a man believed
to have committed a very atrocious and
cowardly murder."

Olivia looked at him fall and earnestly.

*' I don't believe " she began.

You don't believe what ? "

That you ever did it."

*' Because I have the assurance to take the

bull by the horns, waylay you, and insist upon
coming to an explanation ? "

No  o, not because of that."

"Why, then?"

Olivia continued to gaze at him as solemnly
as if she had been a judge passing sentence.

"It is very difficult to say quite why," she
began, deliberately. " They say women hardly
ever can say why they believe a thing."

Is that all your answer ? "

No," she replied, rather sharply, beginning
to be a little annoyed at the irony in his tone.
*' They have never proved it, for one thing,
although they tried. And  how can a man
have changed so in ten years ? "

The first is a reason ; the other is not.
But you have just seen with your own eyes
the only witness to my actions on that night,
and heard with your own ears that he has not
been in the neighbourhood since."

Olivia assented.

*' Then you say, ' How can a man have
changed so much in ten years ? ' But I tell

you I have changed so much in that time that,
except for externals, I might pass for a different
man. Now what becomes of your reasons for
thinking me innocent ? "

"I will believe you did it if you tell me so,
of course," said Olivia, quietly.

"And what then?"

What then ? I shall be sorry again, and
puzzled."

And you will withdraw all those pretty
professions of friendship ? "

Olivia debated with herself for a few moments
only. Then she answered, vehemently, in a
strong voice 

"No. You were my friend  a very good
friend too  before I heard anything against
you. You were good to us, as I hear you are
good to everybody. When you met that man
in the churchyard just now, you spoke like a
brave man, and not like a coward. I hear from
every one about the noble, self-denying life you
lead. If you didn't do it you are almost a
martyr ; if  if you did, you are expiating what

you did in a manner which justifies our respect.
Now if you call these women's reasons, I don't
care ; they are good enough for me, Mr.
Brander."

And for me, too, Miss Denison. I "

He tried to keep his voice under proper command.
But educated to self-control by long
years as he was, he gave way under the unexpected
rush of warm and generous feeling. A
choking in his throat checked his utterance ; his
keen eyes grew moist and dim. He saw, as ina
mist, a hand held out to him, and seizing it,
he wrung it in a pressure which made Olivia
wince.

Look here," he said at last, in a voice still
husky, while he continued to hold her fingers ina
strong, nervous clasp, " I have nothing to say
to you : no confession, no explanation, nothing.
But you are a grand girl  a grand girl."

He released her hand suddenly, as if with an
effort, and then at once struggled into his usual
manner.

You're half frozen with standing in the

cold (a very just penalty for eavesdropping, by
the way), and you'll be half buried before you
get back. I must see you home."

*' Oh, no, indeed, I'm not going to drag you
all that way on a day like this."

But I choose to be dragged. You rash
young woman, accustomed to the peaceful security
of Streatham : you must learn that it is
not safe for a young lady to tramp about this
part of the world alone so late in the day."

But it's not late."

It will be dark before you get home. Goon
up the hill, and I will fetch my mackintosh
and overtake you."

He went into his bare-looking house while
Olivia tramped on obediently. She had not
noticed, until then, how thickly the snowflakes
were falling, nor how the gloom of the leaden
sky was deepening. Now, too, she became
aware, for the first time, that her jaws were
stiff, and her hands and feet bitterly cold ; for
the interview with Mr. Brander had been too
exciting to allow her to notice these things. He

overtook her in a very few minutes, and walked
by her side, conversing on different topics, until
that scene by the churchyard scarcely seemed a
reality. They passed only one person, a rough-looking
collier of unsteady gait, whom Mr.
Brander made use of to point a moral.

Now, is that the sort of person you would
care to meet if you were alone ? " he asked.

I shouldn't have been afraid of him," answered
Olivia.

No ; if he had been sober he would have
been vastly afraid of you. And to most girls I
should say :  So he is when he's drunk. But
your courage doesn't want stimulating ; it wants
repressing. For I tell you my collier boys are
good lads in the main, but there are black sheep
among them as among other folk, and you
mustn't risk falling in with one towards nightfall
on a lonely road. Do you hear ? "

He spoke with playful peremptoriness, but
Olivia understood that he was giving a serious
warning, which she promised to heed. He went
on talking about the colliers, who formed the

bulk of the inhabitants of his scattered parish,
with affectionate interest which awakened a sympathetic
curiosity in her, until they reached the
inn at the entrance of Eishton village. Mr.
Brander had grown so warm over what Olivia
afterwards discovered to be his favourite subject
that, quite unconsciously, his steps, and consequently
hers, had grown slower and slower, while
his voice grew more and more eager, until a
passer-by would have taken them for a pair of
lovers reluctant to separate. They had come to
a complete standstill in the farmyard by the
corner of the house, when they heard the opening
of the front door, a man's footstep, and then
a woman's shrill voice 

It's of no use looking for her, Charles.
She won't be in yet. Olivia never did care a
straw for your comfort or for mine."

Olivia turned to Mr. Brander, and held out
her hand with a shake of the head.

There," she said, " isn't that more eloquent
than the longest description ? There'll be an
end to everything now she's come ! "

Fortunately it had grown by this time so
dark that under her umbrella the hot blushes
which mounted to Olivia's cheeks as soon as
this speech had escaped her lips could not be
seen. Giving-Mr. Brander her hand very
hastily, and not leaving him time for something
he half hesitated, but wanted to say, she turned,
and with a hasty " Good-bye ; thank you very
much for coming," ran round towards the front
of the house.

MRS. Venison AT HOME.

When Olivia had come as near as she could to
the porch without being seen from thence, she
stopped, in the hope that Mrs. Denison, who
was still grumbling at her stepdaughter's nonappearance,
would go indoors, and give her a
chance of enveloping her father in a warm hug,
and of snatching a stolen interview with him
unknown to the ruling powers.

In a few moments, to the girl's great delight,
Mrs. Denison said, impatiently, " Well, I
can't stand here in the snow just because your
daughter chooses to insult me by absenting
herself when I am expected."

My dear, my dear," expostulated papa's
mild tones, " Olivia is the best creature in the
world. She wouldn't think of insulting you or
anybody. But how could she guess we should
come by an earlier train than the one we said ? "

Well, I'm not going to catch cold even for
the best creature in the world, and I should
advise yon not to either. Are you coming in ? "

Not directly, I think, my dear. I want
a little air after that stuffy railway carriage.
And really, you know, those children do quarrel
so "

If you want to go hunting for Olivia, say
so ; bnt don't put it down to the poor children,"
said Mrs. Denison.

And she went indoors, shutting the door
with a nearer approach to a " slam " than
etiquette prescribes for a lady.

No sooner was she safely inside than Olivia
crept along under the lee of the house wall, and
springing up the worn steps at a bound, flung
down her umbrella, and threw her arms round
her father's neck like a hungry young bear.

Good gracious, my dear, you're quite wet,
and as cold as ice. You must come inside and
warm yourself."

Oh, no, dear old papa  poor old papa; it's
warmer here outside. With Beatrix and Regie

fighting, and mamma at freezing-point, the
place must be "

Now you've been listening ; that isn't
right."

Yes, I have  all the afternoon  taking in
all the private conversations I could get near
enough to overhear. I find it grows upon one.
But I can always tell what temper Mrs. Denison
is in without any listening."

Now, Olivia, I won't hear that. Your
stepmother is the best of women "

"Yes, papa, I know," said Olivia, nodding
gravely.

Indeed, she had heard that sentiment many
scores of times, and she supposed that by constant
repetition her good-natured father hoped
to persuade himself that it was true.

And Eegie and Beatrix are the best of
children, aren't they, old papa ? " she asked,
gravely.

He was quite distressed at not being able to
reply truthfully in the affirmative.

Well," he said, " I'm sure they would be.

M

Only somehow, I don't know how it is, they
seem to get a little too much indulged, I
think."

Perhaps they do. I think they want a
little more of your iron rule, papa," said Olivia,
who was hanging on to his arm, lovingly patting
his cheek and turning up his coat collar and
lavishing upon him all the caressing little
attentions he loved from his adored daughter's
hands.

He began to laugh ; her liveliness and
demonstrative affection were dispelling the
gloomy forebodings which had hung upon him
all day on the entrance to this new and untried
life.

You don't treat me with proper respect,
Olivia. If you are going to be impudent, I
shall take you indoors, and get Mrs. Denison to
talk to you."

What mortal man may dare, you dare ; but
you don't dare that," said his daughter, saucily.
Don't you want to know how I've got on here
all by myself?"

** Yes, but I'm afraid you'll catch cold."

No, I shan't. The excitement of this
stolen meetings with the king of my heart will
keep me warm. Besides, we'll go in directly.
Only when we do, you know what it will be.
Nag, nag  oh, no, I forgot ; that word is
tabooed. I should say orate, orate, until all the
ills that flesh is heir to have been exhausted."

What were you doing out on a day like
this? You hadn't gone to meet us, had you ? "

** No-o, I hadn't. I'd been to look at a
church."

That means that you've fallen in love with
a parson."

Papa, papa, how can you say such things 
of me, too ? "

Why, my dear child, I only spoke in fun.
You don't really suppose I thought so meanly
of you as that ? "

Olivia laughed with some constraint. If her

father, who already had a prejudice against the

clergy, should hear the rumours about poor Mr.

Brander, nothing, short of entreaties which she

m2

would be ashamed to use, would induce him to
allow her to exchange another word with the
vicar of St. Cuthbert's. And, in a neighbourhood
where the social attractions were so few as
at Ashton, the loss of an acquaintance capable
of intelligent conversation was a serious one.
She grew silent, and beginning to feel conscious
of the cold, shivered. Her father instantly
opened the door and led her into the house.
He could hear his wife's powerful voice as she
chatted with one of the servants in the diningroom.
Mrs. Denison was one of those women
who confide much in their servants, without
extracting any confidence worth having in return.
She dropped into a stony silence as her
husband and his daughter entered ; for there
was a feud, generally covert, but none the less
real, between the two ladies.

Mrs. Denison was a woman of about thirty-five,
of the middle height, somewhat thick-set,
with a cold face, which was not ill-looking,
though she had never been strictly handsome.
She drew herself up, with a displeased

expression, in the armchair she occupied by the
fire; and Olivia knew that her efforts to make
the house comfortable had not met with the
approval of its mistress. The girl walked the
whole length of the long room with a rather
rebellious feeling in her heart, which she tried to
subdue, and held out her hand with the best
grace she could.

How do you do, mamma ? I hope you
had a pleasant journey," she said, cordially.

Mrs. Denison gave her finger - tips, and
looked at her with cold eyes.

Quite as well as I could expect, thank you,
knowing what I had to look forward to."

I hope you don't dislike the new home
already."

*' Oh, when it begins to look at all like
'home,' I daresay it will be bearable enough;
but there is at least a fortnight's hard work forme
before that can happen."

Olivia's face changed, and began to look
proud and mutinous. Mr. Denison rushed into
the breach.

Come, come, Susan, I don't think you are
quite fair to poor Olivia. Eemember, it's hardwork
for a girl, arranging a big house like this.
I think she has done very well indeed."

You must allow me, Edward, to know
what I am talking about," said his wife ; while
Eegie and Beatrix, who had been quarrelling
silently but viciously in a corner, scenting something
more interesting in a possible discussion
among their elders, came to an abrupt truce and
listened eagerly. "I think I ought to understand
the arrangement of a house by this time."

It is a pity, Mrs. Denison, that you could
not have spared Lucy and me a week of discomfort
and hard work by coming here first
yourself," said Olivia, whose quick temper was
seldom proof against her stepmother's attacks.
I never doubted that we should fail to please
you, but you might give us the credit of having
tried."

Why, what's the matter, Susan ? What have
you to find fault with?" asked Mr. Denison.
His easy-going nature made him averse from interfering

in any discussion ; but he had suffered
so much self-reproach for allowing his daughter
to come to Eishton by herself that he felt impelled
to dare a word in her behalf. " Hasn't
she made the place very comfortable ? "

She has at least taken care that she herself
shall be very comfortable," said Mrs. Denison, in
her most disagreeable tone.

Will you please tell me how I have done
that ? " asked Olivia, in a very low voice.

She was afraid lest her self-control should
leave her, and the discussion assume the vulgar
aspect of a quarrel between two angry women.
For, blame herself for it as she might, she was
angry as well as hurt.

By consulting nobody's convenience but
your own in your choice of a room for yourself,"
said Mrs. Denison, sharply.

My bedroom! " cried the girl, with unfeigned
surprise. " Why, what other could I have
chosen ? It is the smallest in this side of the
house, except papa's dressing-room ! "

It is the only one that I could possibly make

into a boudoir for myself. I don't know whether
you expect me to give up all the little comforts
and refinements of a lady."

This speech grated on the ears of both Olivia
and her father. Mr. Denison, after ten years of
his second marriage, was by no means so absorbed
by marital devotion as to ignore the descent he
had made in taking for his second wife a woman
scarcely refined enough to have been maid to his
first. Being a man of affectionate temperament,
fond of home, and sensitively grateful for kindness,
real or supposed, it was natural that in his
keen sorrow at his first wife's death he should
fall a prey to the first woman, near at hand, who
should find it worth her while to capture him.
This, in the natural course of things, proved to
be his daughter's governess.

The clever, superficially educated daughter of
a small provincial shopkeeper, the second Mrs.
Denison, on her elevation to a rank above her
birth, was determined to avail herself to the full
of every privilege to which her new station entitled
her. One of these privileges she conceived

to be the possession of a "boudoir," tbougli what
the precise significance of it was to her it was not
easy to see, as she entered it very rarely, while
the whole house was not large enough for her to
sulk " in. But in overlooking this necessity
of her station, Mrs. Denison chose to consider
that Olivia had wished to put upon her a slight
of the kind she could least brook, and no pains
the girl had taken in other directions could induce
her to overlook the indignity.

Again Mr. Denison, with unusual rashness,
stepped in.

My dear Susan," he expostulated, " Olivia
must have a room to sleep in. And there must
be a spare room kept for Ernest. Where else
could she stow herself ? "

There are two good rooms in the wing "

began Mrs. Denison.

But, my dear, they are damp and full of
mouldy old things that "

He was interrupted in his turn by his
daughter.

'' I haven't the least objection to sleeping in

the wing, papa. I left those rooms untouched
for Mrs. Denison to decide what she would have
done with them. I will take the large room
with pleasure, mouldy old things and all."

In truth, Olivia was pleased with this arrangement,
and she took possession of the room which
had once been Ellen Mitchell's with alacrity
which she did her best to hide from her stepmother.
Nobody had told Mrs. Denison the
story about those two rooms ; but their decayed
and desolate appearance had inspired her with a
strong prejudice against them, so that Olivia
was allowed to keep not only the bedroom, but
the outer room as well for her own use. Mr.
Denison was strongly opposed to the idea of his
beautiful daughter sleeping away from the rest
of the household in what he called " a wretched
old rat-run." But as the two feminine wills
were both against his, he could do nothing but
stipulate emphatically that fires were to be kept
up in both rooms throughout the winter. His
wife demurred at the expense, but on this point
he was firm, and had his own way.

In the jarring family life which the Denison
household led under the presidency of the second
wife, Olivia found a great relief in being able to
shut herself up in her wing, away from all discordant
elements, even though the atmosphere of
these two rooms remained to the end heavy with
the tragedy of their late occupant. That tragedy
the young girl grew more and more anxious fully
to know about ; so she turned over the leaves of
the old books, and read again the inscription in
faded ink in the old prayer-book: "Ellen Mitchell,
from her affectionate brother Ned." What
had become of "Ned " ? Did the "affectionate
brother" know that his sister had been spirited
away, leaving no trace ? These were conjectures
which often passed through Olivia's mind as she
sat down for a lazy half-hour by her fire at bedtime.


This half-hour was now the only idle time in
Olivia's day. Like many other idle English girls,
she had only wanted something to do to develop
the most dashing energy ; and as Mrs. Denison
was too much enervated by long years of laziness

to care for the trouble of housekeeping, Olivia
flung herself with ardour into these new duties,
and found in them that necessary outlet for her
energies which she had previously sought in lawn
tennis.

The whole family had been settled at Eishton
Hall a week, and Mrs. Denison had begun bitterly
to complain that nobody had called upon her,
when one afternoon, while Olivia was busy in the
dining-room with the children's clothes, and her
stepmother was shut up in her boudoir with
a novel, a carriage drove up to the door, and a
footman, descending from the box, gave such a
thundering knock as made the old door creak on
its hinges. Olivia could just see from where
she sat that the carriage was very large, that the
footman was very tall, and that the horses were
showy animals, their heads held well back with
the bearing-rein. That was enough for her.
She loved horses, and the bearing-rein was an
abomination in her eyes.

Those parvenus," she said to herself,
haughtily.

And when Lucy came to announce that Mrs.
and Miss and Mr. Frederick Williams were in
the drawing-room, she said, briefly, *' Tell Mrs.
Denison, Lucy," without looking up, or pausing
in her work.

She knew this was wrong. She knew that
she ought to go and entertain the visitors during
the ten minutes which Mrs. Denison would
certainly devote to self adornment before going
down to the drawing-room. But besides that
she felt, in her new burst of house-managing
fervour, the giving and receiving of visits to bea
frivolity, Olivia was resolved not to cultivate
any intimacy with the family of the odious
Frederick So she worked on, feeling guilty but
defiant, until she heard Mrs. Denison's heavy
and pompous tread upon the stairs. A few
minutes later, the drawing-room door opened
again, and Olivia heard the whole party come
out to be shown over the house.

You shall see what I have made of the
upstairs rooms first," said Mrs. Denison's voice,
and make the acquaintance of my cherubs."

And to Olivia's delight, they streamed upstairs
towards the room where the cherubs
could be distinctly heard screaming with all
their might. She gave a sigh of relief at this
respite, and was turning over a small stocking on
her hand to see what mending it needed, when
there came a little timid, hesitating knock at the
door.

Come in," said she, feeling instantly sure
the knock was that of a complete stranger.

The door was opened by the pleasant-looking
lady whom Olivia had noticed in church.
She had a diffident blush on her face, and a deprecating
smile, which made her look pleasant
than ever. Olivia rose, and the lady hurried
forward.

No, don't get up. Don't make me feel
I've disturbed you," she entreated. " I know
I've taken a dreadful liberty, but I caught sight
of you in here as we came in, and I'm so devouring
anxious to know you that when Mrs. Venison
offered to take us all upstairs, I slipped
behind to try to get a peep at you."

Olivia was disarmed. Miss Williams took a
chair beside her, and looked with interest at the
work in her hand.

*' I could show you such a much better way
of mending that heel if you'd let me," she said,
almost with eagerness.

Oh, if you're what they call ' clever with
your needle ' I mustn't work before you," said
the girl, smiling. " I'm only a beginner at anything
useful, and 1 bungle frightfully over everything
at present."

"But you want to learn?" asked the lady,
quite earnestly.

Indeed I do. We haven't enough servants
now to do everything ; and unless I learn to
give real help in the house  not mere amateurish
dabbling, you know  half the things that ought
to be done will be left undone."

Miss Williams's gloves were off, and she was
already busy with the small stocking. Olivia
was astonished to notice that the quick, clever
fingers bore distinct traces, both in shape and
texture, of former hard work. The elder lady

glanced up, caught the girl's eyes, and
blushed.

Yes," she said, smiling, and as if telling a
secret, " you would be astonished if I were to
tell you of all the work these hands have done
in their time. Now that my father has got on,
and married a lady, all that has to be forgotten.
But oh ! if the servants knew, when I tell them
the hall has not been properly scrubbed, how I
long to be down on my knees doing it myself
! "

She was in earnest, but there was such a
twinkle of fun in her eyes that Olivia, who liked
her more and more every minute, joined her ina
burst of laughter. Then Olivia remembered
that there was a bond of union between them,
and she said, in a confidential tone 

You have a stepmother, too, then ? "

Yes, and no. Mrs. Williams is my father's
second wife, and I am the child of his first. My
own mother was "  she looked round her with
mock mystery  " a factory lass. And  and so
was I till I was fourteen. Then my father made

a discovery, and began to grow ricci and ambitious.
And my mother died  perhaps luckily
for her, poor thing  and he buried her and the
old life together. But he could not bury me,
you know ; and if the lady he then married had
not had the sweetest disposition in the world, it
might have fared ill with me. But she is a kind
creature, and she made my civilisation as little
irksome to me as possible. And that is why
stepmother doesn't seem the right name for her ;
and there is all my autobiography."

All the time her busy fingers were making
the needle fly through the stocking with a deftness
absolutely bewildering to Olivia.

You are luckier than I have been," said
the young girl, in a low voice.

Miss Williams looked up again, her eyes
beaming with sympathetic intelligence.

Yes, I could see that. My father married
up for the second time, while yours "

Married down. Yes, down in every way ;
that's the worst of it : temper, manners, everything.
If she had been different, I should not

N

have minded growing poorer in the least, but
it is tiresome to be thrown so much on her
society."

"Yes, there are absolutely no suitable friends
about here for you."

Well' said Olivia, laughing, blushing, and
hesitating, " I thought so till ten minutes
ago."

Miss Williams in her turn flushed with pleasure.
But then she shook her head.

"You might put up with me perhaps, though
I am much too old for you. But my half-brother
! You have met him, and snubbed him,
I think, because he is always raving about your
beauty and spirit. But if so, you certainly do
not want to meet him again."

Indeed, I don't," answered the girl, laughing.


We might perhaps find a common meeting
ground at the Vicarage after next week, when
the vicar comes back. But I don't know how
you will like Mrs. Brander," she added, very
dubiously.

*' Isn't she nice ? " asked Olivia, with great
interest.

Oh, yes, she's very nice, and very handsome,
and  and straightforward, and  and
looked up to. She quite leads the fashions
here, you know, and starts everything. She is
not at all like the ordinary humdrum vicar's
wife. But "

"Well?"

I don't want to talk scandal, but you must
hear all the standing gossip, and you may as
well hear it without venom. People talk about
her and her husband's brother "

Mr. Vernon Brander 1 "

"Yes."

"He told me himself he had been in love
with her before she married," said Olivia,
warmly.

Miss Williams gave a quick glance at her
face, making the girl blush.

Yes, but, well, people have seen her going
in and out of his house since, and late, very late,
in the evening. I should not have told you
N 2

these things, only they must make a difference
in the way one looks upon people."

From your manner towards Mr. Vernon
Brander, I shouldn't have thought they made
any difference' said Olivia, who was much
excited.

"Ah, that is the privilege of being an old
maid," answered Miss Williams, very quietly.
' I can do without fear what a young girl cannot
do  make friends with a black sheep."

Olivia started.

Do you think he is guilty, then ? " she
asked, in a startled whisper.

Miss Williams, who had risen, looked very
grave.

"Of the other charge? I don't know. I
would give my right hand to know that it was
not so. For I am so much interested in him  I
may even say, so fond of him. I know, from
what he has told me, that his inner life is one
long storm, one long struggle. But, why
doesn't he clear himself if he can ? To an old
friend like me three words would be enough."

Then yon belie ve-

Why does he accept the position ? Why
does he come to me and ask me to do what I
can to help you in your loneliness ? '*

Olivia looked up.

That is what he did last Sunday," continued
Miss Williams. "And he alluded to
his unfortunate position ' as putting a barrier
between you and any wish he might have to
assist you. Why should he speak like that if
he knew himself to be innocent of either
charge ? "

Olivia was silent. She did not care to let
the other lady see how deeply this matter
affected her. She was indeed surprised at the
keenness of her own feeling. It was a great
relief to her that at that moment voices were
heard at the top of the staircase, and Miss Williams
jumped up, saying that she would have to
excuse herself for playing truant. Olivia shook
hands with her almost mechanically, and promised
to go to see her without knowing what
she said. As soon as she was left alone, the

young girl abandoned her work, and sat staring
before her in most unusual idleness. One sentence
was ringing in her ears :

Why didn't he clear himself if he could? "
And to this question it was impossible to
suggest an answer.

THE " FIGHTING PARSON."

Any one who could have seen into the workings
of Olivia Denison's heart and mind when she
was left to herself would probably have pronounced
her to be 'ein love " with the Reverend
Vernon Brander. This was not quite true. She
did indeed feel a very strong interest in the
hermit vicar and his mysterious history ; and
such interest in a young girl's mind cannot
exist quite apart from sentiment. But then,
the sentiments awakened by the overheard
interview in the churchyard and by Miss
Williams's suggestions were so largely mingled
with doubt, disgust, and horror, that on the
whole she felt she would infinitely prefer, in
spite of his kindness, never to meet him again.
She felt very thankful, however, as the days
went by, that no story and no rumours about

the vicar of St. Cuthbert's readied Mrs.
Denison's ears. That lady was too much
wrapt up in herself to trouble herself much
about her neighbours ; and beyond expressing
great indignation that he had not called upon
her, she expressed no great interest in the
vicar's deputy.

Olivia was taking to the country life with
much zest. Besides her household duties, she
found time to occupy herself greatly with the
live stock on the farm, and to take the poultry
under her especial care. Mat Oldshaw used to
slip round, on one pretence or another, in the
early morning when she was busy with her
poultry, and, leaning over the fence, used to
give her advice about the management of them,
trying to check her extravagance.

*' Ye don't need to give 'em all that corn,
Miss Denison, now they aren't laying," he said
to her one day reproachfully, as she distributed
grain with a wildly lavish hand. " What profit
will ye be likely to get if ye feed 'em op like
that ? Every egg ye '11 get this year 'full cost

ye twopence, and ye'll lose on every chicken ye
sell."

Well, I can't starve them just because
they're not bringing in a proj&t just now," said
the girl. " If they've any sense of gratitude
they'll grow beautifully plump and fat, and
sell at fancy prices."

That there's regular lady's farming," said
Mat, shaking his head dubiously. " And it's
all of a piece wi' t' way t' mester's going' to
work himself. It's very pretty, but it ain't
like practical work, and it don't pay."

Olivia's bright face clouded.

But papa's got a farm bailiff," said she.

"Oh ay, and gotten a rat to eat op his
coom," assented Mat, darkly.

Do you mean to insinuate," began Olivia
with a tragic face, " that Tom Herrick "

"All Ah mean. Miss, is that Ah'd like to
see ye mak' a profit on your hens ; for that's
what Ah call success, and Ah'd like ye to be
successful, that Ah should."

Thank you, Mat ; it's very kind of you.

And you're quite right ; of course it's only by
making every department pay that one can
make the farm pay."

Ay," said Mat. " And if ye'll but follow
ait what Ah say, ye'll be able to keep twice
them lot o' hens on what ye're given' 'em.
We've got ground for fifty more, and if Ah was
you, Ah'd go over to Long Sedge Bend and buy
some of old Wider Lund's ; she's got 'em to
sell. And don't ye go giving her no fancy
price, but beat her down ; that's business, and
she's none so poor but she can afford to let ye
have 'em cheap. They bent so much to look
at, her hens ; but they're good 'uns to lay, and
worth a field full o' them fancy sorts."

Olivia began to play thoughtfully with the
grain left in her basket. She was very anxious
for the honour of her poultry yard, and she
began already to be fired with the ambition to
make it a successful commercial enterprise. She
had a little pocket-money put by; she could
lay that out as she pleased, without consulting
anybody.

*' How far off is this Long Sedge Bend ? "

A matter o' two mile an' a half. It's
down by Sedge Bend coal-pit."

And Where's that ? "

*' Ye go along t' Sheffield Eoad till ye coom tot'
mill. Turn to yer left, as if ye were going' to
Sheffield, till ye coom to t' Blue Boar ; bear to
yer left across t' fields, and that's Sedge Bend."

Isn't there a shorter way across the fields ?
That must be such a long way round."

Ay, but ye manna go t' short way.
They're a rough lot down at Long Sedge, and
ye maun keep to t' road."

Well, I shall go this very day and interview
Mrs. Lund. I'm afraid, though, I shall
be short of accommodation if I buy many more
chickens."

Nay, Ah'll rig ye op some nests and a
perch in t' auld toolhouse yonder. Ah can dort
in an hour."

It's awfully good of you, but you needn't
hurry with it, for I shan't start till after
luncheon."

But start as early as ye can. It don't do
to be late by oneself in those parts."

Well, I'll be sure to start in good time,
and I'll take a big basket to bring some of the
chickens back in."

Best let mea fetch 'em for ye tomorrow ;
Ah can't get away to-day. It's not for t' likes
o' you to carry baskets o' love stock along t'
roads."

But I can't wait  I can't wait ; I must see
them to-day," said this headstrong young madam,
who liked to carry out her plans with the
impetuosity of a whirlwind. " And as for the
basket, why there isn't another farmer's daughter
in Yorkshire with stronger arms than mine."

Mat looked at her mistrustfully, but he said
nothing more on the subject.

Ah'll tak' t' measure of t' toolhouse if Ah
may coom in," was all he said.

Olivia was running to open the gate for
him ; but, with a nod of thanks he vaulted over
the high fence, and set about his work without
another word. The country lad had been fairly

bewitched by the beauty and brightness of this
young lady, who seemed to him a creature of a
different mould from any of the womenkind he
had hitherto met  even from handsome Mrs.
Meredith Brander. Nothing gave him so much
delight as to be able to render her a small service ;
and even while he was taking the measurements
of the toolhouse, he was pondering a way to
spare her what he considered the dangers of
the walk she proposed to take that afternoon.
The girl herself, knowing nothing of this plan,
and thinking lightly enough of the enterprise,
watched his proceedings with great interest,
and finally overwhelmed him with thanks which
sent him home happy.

Olivia started on her walk that afternoon
without a word to anybody concerning the
object of her expedition. She had a purse with
some of her savings in her pocket, and a large
poultry basket on her arm. " I shall leave this
basket somewhere when I come in sight of the
cottage, and pretend I've only come to look at
the chickens," she said to herself, resolved to be

very astute. But the widow Lund was more
astute still, and managed to drive a very good
bargain with her fair young customer. Indeed,
Olivia showed such a helpless inability to
distinguish between a young chicken and the
hoariest-headed rooster of the lot, that it would
have needed superhuman virtue not to take
advantage of her. It was with a glow of unspeakable
delight and pride that, having paid
for a dozen hens, she said she would take half
of them home with her, and, running out of the
cottage, picked up the basket which she had
hidden behind the hedge, and brought it to
pack her live-stock in.

Poor Olivia ! An unknown visitor was such
a rare sight at Long Sedge that the advent of
a grand lady wi' a big basket " had been
reported all over the village as she drew near
the outskirts ; and the widow Lund herself,
with two cronies, having watched her approach,
basket and all, from the door of Mrs. Perkins's
washhouse, was able to appreciate at its full
value the poor little ruse.

"Wlien her load was ready, Olivia quickly
discovered that a basket containing six live
chickens is neither a light nor a convenient
burden, and perceived that to carry them back
by the way she had come would be a more
arduous and fatiguing task than she had
imagined. When, therefore, she found there
was a path across the fields which would lead
up to the high road, and shorten the way by at
least half a mile, the temptation was too strong
for her, and, disregarding Mat's warnings, as
that young man had expected her to do, she
ventured fearlessly on the short cut. Half a
dozen unkempt children laughed and yelled at
her as she passed ; a few rough-looking women
whispered to each other at the doors of their
dirty cottages ; while a man, who was leaning
against a wall smoking a short black pipe, slunk
out of her way, as if conscious that she belonged
to a higher type of civilisation. Mat was right :
Long Sedge Bank was a rough place. The inhabitants
looked wild and out of touch with the
rest of humanity ; the long rows of small brick

cottages, many of which were windowless and
deserted, looked squalid and miserable, while
over everything was that black and grimy look
which the neighbourhood of a coal pit produces.
It was Saturday afternoon, and the pits were
idle. A great black wheel, towering over a
mound on the right, showed where lay the
entrance to the nearest shaft. Found the door
of a beer house, smaller and much more dishes
than the Collier's Arms, was
a group of men and boys, spending their half-holiday
in dull and noisy fashion. They were
a rough-looking lot, and Olivia passed them
quickly. Her way lay along a cinder path over
the fields, and for some time she got on very
well, meeting no one, and enjoying the frosty
afternoon. Just as she ran through a turnstile
and followed the sudden turn of the path to the
left, however, a man started up from the ground,
called out " Hallo, missis ! " and attempted to
seize one of her feet. She was startled into
uttering a low exclamation, and, rightly judging
that the man was drunk, she ran on as fast as

she could, hoping to get beyond his pursuit
before he could get upon his legs. But a
drunken man may be able to run when he
cannot walk ; and Olivia's assailant, who was
a stalwart young collier with a blear-eyed and
most unprepossessing face, gave chase in good
earnest, and came up with her just as she came
to a barrier between two fields in the shape of a
very high and very primitive stile. Seeing she
had no time to get over it in safety, the girl
put down her basket close by the hedge, turned
suddenly, and faced her pursuer.

For the first time in her life she felt thoroughly
frightened, for the young man looked
brutal and reckless; but she had plenty of
courage, and the terror she felt showed neither in
her face, her attitude, nor in her resonant voice.

* What do you want ? "

He reeled, not having expected her sudden
movement.

Ah want a look at tha pretty face, mel
dear'* said he, only just distinctly enough for
her to understand him.

And he gave her a tipsy leer of admiration.

And now will yon be kind enough to pass
on ? " said she, in a firm tone. " Or to let me
pass on without further hindrance ? "

Ah'm not a-hinderin of that' said the
young man, who was trying to stand steadily
in proximity much too close to be pleasant.
Tha can goa wheel tha likest."

Olivia looked at him doubtfully, but as he
made for the moment no attempt to molest her,
she began to feel reassured. " Gro back, then,"
said she, '' and let me go on."

"Nea," said he, shaking his head with an
ugly grin ; " Ah'm going' to help tha over t' stile.
Ah'll carry tha whisker for tha if tha'rt civil."

Thank you," said Olivia, taking the fellow's
offers as if they where courtesies, '' but I want no
Help, either for myself or my basket. If you
wish to do me a service, you will go back and
let me go on."

*'Ah maun see tha over t' stile first," said
he. ' Coom, missis, don't be shy."

He swooped down upon her basket, which

she snatched up so quickly that he lost his
balance and fell against the wooden fence. With
a rapid step she got round him, basket and all,
and was in the act of mounting the first step of
the stile when the young ruffian, perceiving her
purpose and enraged at a blow he had received
in stumbling, lurched round with unexpected
agility, and laid a rough hand on her arm. She
tried to wrench herself free, but the muscular
strength she was so proud of was as a child's
feebleness against the brute force of this man.
It had never before happened to her to feel
powerless like this. With teeth clenched hard,
and eyes watching intently for a moment's advantage,
she wrestled in utter silence with the
man, who tried to force her to mount the stile.

*' Tha'd better not give ma so mooch trouble,
ma bonny madam," said he, roughly. " That'll
only have to pay for 't on t' other side. An'
Ah'll tak' a buss now to goa on wi."

He put his arm round her waist and tried
to kiss her ; Olivia fought fiercely, still without
uttering a word. In the midst of her desperate
o 2

struggles her assailant saw the girl's face change
light up with hope, with expectancy. Then,
with all the force of her lungs, she suddenly
shouted, "Help!" For a moment the collier
was surprised into desisting from his attack,
hut before she could take advantage of this he
recovered himself, and putting one rough and
dirty hand over her mouth, growled sullenly 

Nea, their bennet no help for tha till Ah've
done with disclosing

his strong fingers on her face, he
pulled her head round with brutal violence, and
had his own repulsive face close to hers, when
he suddenly felt one strong hand laid on his
shoulder and another under his chin, and his
head being forced back with a jerk, he found
that he was in the vigorous clutches of the vicar
of St. Cuthbert's.

Dang tha ! It's t' fighting' parson ! " cried
the rough in a surly tone .

Yes, and I'm going to exercise my fists
on your ugly face as soon as ever you're sober,
you hulking vagabond ! " said Mr. Brander,

with a conspicuous lack of pastoral meekness.
The man had fallen back, and, half drunk as he
was, looked ashamed of himself.

Tha maun look out for thyself if tha tries
that on," he said, sullenly. Then with more
assurance he went on, '' Duenna think Ah care
for tha been' t' parson. It ain't mooch of a
parson tha'lt be when all's known. Ay," he
continued, seeing that these vague words were
not without effect, " their's a mon abaft as
wants tha, an' as won't rest till e's gotten tha,
and maybe before tha takes op wi' another lass
ell mak' tha give an account o' t' one tha spirited
away. Now coom on if tha likes."

And he put himself in a fighting position.

Mr. Brander pushed him on one side so that
he staggered, and picking up Olivia's basket,
signed to her to get over the stile, while he
turned to give a few short and sharp words of
farewell to the discomfited collier. A few seconds
later Olivia, who had walked quickly on in shame,
relief, and confusion, heard the vicar's voice close
behind her.

And now, Miss Denison, IVe a sermon
ready for you."

Coming up with her, he saw that the girl,
who made no answer, had tears in her eyes.

No, I'm not going to have any mercy on
you because you choose to cry," said he, pitilessly.
" It's no fairer of a girl to use her tears
against a man than it is for a man to use his
fists against a woman. If you don't instantly
leave off, I shall feel at liberty to hit you. You
know you deserve it."

*'Ho-ow? " asked she, tremulously.

'' How ! Why, by disregarding the emphatic
warnings, not of one friend, but of two, and by
dragging out a poor parson, on Saturday, his
sermon day, to protect you from the consequences
of your folly."

Dragging you out ! "

*' Yes. This morning comes Mat Oldshaw
post-haste to me just before luncheon to say you
were going off on a wild-goose  no, on a tame-hen
 chase to Long Sedge Bend, and that he
was certain you would come back over the Yery

fields wliicli lie lead just assured you were unsafe
for a lady."

But, Mr. Brander," put in Olivia, in real
distress, " I've always been used to take care of
myself; I have never been annoyed before. It's
an infamous thing that a girl shouldn't be able
to do what her powers enable her to do just as
well as a man ! "

Infamous, perhaps, but indisputable. It is
of no use to kick against custom."

But what is going to be the use of me, if
I, a great strong creature who can do lots of
work, and shall soon understand farming better
than papa, can't cross the road without a footman
at my heels to keep off tipsy coal miners ?
Oh, dear, I wish I weren't a wretched girl ! "

You couldn't be anything else, with that
illogical mind, and that extravagant way of
looking at things."

Illogical ! " cried she, now really offended.
"Why, papa says I have the most reasonable
head he ever knew ! "

'' For a woman."

Olivia was at first too much offended to reply.

I'm papa's right hand," she said at last,
coldly. " I'm just like a son to him."

I think not, Miss Denison," said the vicar,
shaking his head.

** My father would tell you so himself, Mr.
Brander."

And I should not believe him, Miss Venison."


Olivia began to see that the vicar was enjoying
her indignation, so she bit her lips and remained
silent.

Just think, now, what happens when you
find him a little depressed and irritable. Does
he dismiss you with a snub as he would one of
your brothers ? Does he not rather submit to
a little coaxing, allow himself to be * brought
round,' and receive a kiss as a reward ? "

Yes, that is true, certainly," said she,
smiling. " But that has nothing to do with the
real value of the help I give him."

Oh, but it has. It has, on the contrary,
everything to do with it. Instead of complaining

that you are a ' wretched girl,' yon must
learn to understand that. What the intrinsic
value of your services may be I don't know ; but
if you had the abilities of a Senior Wrangler
they would count for nothing compared with
your sympathy and love for him, and your pretty
feminine way of showing it. And so, you see,
as your tender womanhood is of more consequence
to us  I mean to him  than all the fine
masculine qualities of your intellect, you must
consent to accept the protection we decree that
your womanhood needs."

Papa doesn't decree it. He says girls
ought to learn to take care of themselves."

Will he say so after to-day's adventure, do
you think ? "

I shan't tell him anything about it."

Then I shall, unless you give me your
word, like a sensible girl, never to cross these
fields alone again."

"Need you ask that, Mr. Brander ? " said
the girl, reddening.

Well, forgive me. I don't know you well

enough to be sure how deep the headstrong vein
runs."

I am miserably sorry and ashamed to have
brought you so far this afternoon."

Are you ? Oh, I have done more irksome
things than that in my time, I assure you," said
he drily. " Besides, I've only come from St.
Cuthbert's. I'm back again in my own parsonage
to-day, you know, for my brother and sister-in-law
are expected this afternoon."

"Are they? " said she. '' I am so anxious
to see them, especially Mrs. Brander."

Make haste on to the high road then. The
pony cart has gone to meet them, and they generally
come this way round from Matherham."

They were within a short distance of the
road when Mr. Brander descried a little way off
his sister-in-law's light wood cart and plump cob
pony. Quickening their pace, Olivia excited and
curious, her companion decidedly nervous, they
climbed the last steps of the hill, and reached
the high road a few moments before the cart
came up. They stopped to recover their breath,

exchanging a merry word or two as they waited.
As they drove up, Olivia, who had splendid eyesight,
could see what a handsome pair the vicar
of Eishton and his wife were. He was fair,
serene, portly, good-humoured; she dark, erect,
and blooming. They were conversing amicably
as they came along, and did not notice the two
people waiting b} the roadside until they were
close upon them, and Yernon Brander accosted
them. Olivia wondered at the nervous tremor
in his voice as he did so.

But she was still more surprised at the effect
of this meeting upon the lady and gentleman
in the cart. The serenity of the portly vicar
clouded at sight of his brother ; an indescribable
change came over his face  a look which was
not exactly disapproval, or doubt, or suspicion, or
mistrust, though it partook of all those qualities,
as he glanced from Mr. Yernon Brander to the
beautiful girl at his side. The expression of the
lady spoke more plainly still. Her eyes moved
quickly from the man to the woman and back
again, while her lips tightened and her forehead

puckered with evident consternation. Both lady
and gentleman, whatever the cause of their
annoyance might be, were self-possessed enough
to give Miss Denison a kind and courteous greeting
when Mr. Vernon Brander, with evident
nervousness, introduced her. Learning that
Olivia had been buying poultry, Mrs. Brander
inspected the purchase with great interest, but
pronounced two of the birds to be very old
rooster indeed. She then told her brother-in-law
that they were going straight home to an
early dinner, and told him to make haste to the
Yicarage, as they should expect him to join them.
Then they drove off, leaving OHvia with the
uncomfortable impression that they disapproved
of her acquaintance with Mr. Vernon Brander
in the strongest possible manner.

CHAPTER XI.

PAGE

Mes. Bearded Makes a Resolution. . . . 1

CHAPTER XII.
A Strange in Ashton . 28

CHAPTER XIII.
The Strange Discloses Himself . . . . 56

CHAPTER XIV.
The Housekeeper's Story 82

CHAPTER XV.
A Cheerless Home 106

CHAPTER XVI.

PAGE

Consolation at the Vicarage 134

CHAPTER XVII.
Nellie Mitchell's Prophecy 160

CHAPTER XVIII.
Ned Mitchell's Pets . . . . . . .187

Chapter XI.

MRS. BRANDER MAKES A RESOLUTION.

Not for some minutes after the little carriage
containing the Eeverend Meredith Brander and
his wife had driven on did either of the young
people they had left break silence. Olivia
watched the disappearing vehicle with much interest,
and Vernon Brander, though with less
openness, watched Olivia.

At last she turned sharply, and met his eyes
fixed upon her with a half-fierce, haK-moumful
intentness, which struck her with painful surprise.
He at once turned away his head, and asked,
abruptly 

Well, what do you think of them ? Mind,
it is of no use for you to say you haven't had
b

time to judge, or anything of that sort, for I have
already caught the reflection of very decided
opinion in your face*'

I don't deny that I have formed decided
opinions, though I don't pledge myself they are
correct."

"Well?"

I think I shall like your brother, but I know
I shan't like his wife."

Very straightforwardly put. An instinct
merely, or something more ? "

Something more, I think. You know I
have seen their portraits ; well, I have thought
about them a great deal, and now I have compared
my impressions of the photographs with
my impressions of the originals, and the result is
a decided opinion."

You know I told you that you would like
my brother  that all ladies do," said Vernon,
with a perceptible shade of jealousy.

Well, you are right ; I admit it. He seems
the incarnation of good humour  to shed a sort
of sunshine of cheeriness around him."

Yes, yes, he does," admitted Vernon, rather
bitterly, Olivia thought.

She continued : " It was plain that, for some
reason or other, neither he nor Mrs. Brander was
glad to see me. It almost seemed as if they took
an instinctive dislike to me. But even that coukl
not sour your brother ; it scarcely made him less
genial. On the other hand, it made all the
difference in the world to Mrs. Brander's manner.
She looked at me just as if I were an enemy,
who had done her, or was going to do her, some
severe injury."

Glancing at her companion, Olivia saw that
something she had said affected him very strongly.
She was silent therefore, afraid that she had
already said too much.

It may be," said Mr. Brander, after a pause,
'' that she feels a kind of most innocent jealousy
of you. She has, all through her married life, been
used to look upon me as one of those unattached
tame cats who are only too glad to catch mice
for any responsible matron who is kind to them.
My sister-in-law annexed me in that capacity


long ago ; sends me to market, sets me to mind
the children, to nail up the fallen picture, or even
to lecture the gardener. I don't suppose she has
seen me speak to another lady  a young lady 
for ten years."

**I should have thought, by her look, she
would be equal to lecturing the gardener herself,"
said Olivia, drily.

Mr. Brander laughed. " Well, she is not
quite resourceless when it comes to an affair of
the tongue," he admitted. " But you must not
think she is a shrew, for all that. Then, she
has been our beauty too, and has been used
to set the fashions for the ladies. While

now "

He stopped and smiled as he looked at the
blooming, prettily dressed girl beside him.

Olivia, however, found this no smiling matter,
but replied, with deep scorn 

Surely, Mrs. Brander can't be so small-minded
as that. I can assure her I have no wish
to entrench upon her privileges ; and, with only
eighteen pounds a year for dress and pocket

money, I am not likely to set fashions that there
will be a rush to follow."

You might set a fashion in faces," suggested
he.

Oh," said she, laughing, '' if Mrs. Brander
envies me the admiration of Mr. Frederick
Williams  or, indeed, of any of the jeunesse donee
of this neighbourhood  I can assure her that she
will only have to wait a very little while before
my unqualified disdain will bring them all again
to her matronly feet."

Myself among the number."

Oh, Mr. Brander, I didn't count you."

*' But in mercy you must. I am rather grey
behind the ears, and rather lean about the jaws ;
but let me still think myself as eligible a bachelor
as the place boasts."

He spoke playfully, but something, either in
his tone or in the knowledge she had of his life,
touched her, and made her voice very kind, as
she answered 

I did not mean that I thought you too
old. I meant that I could not think of

classing you with a creature like Frederick
Williams."

He would take that as a compliment*'

*' I don't think he would if he saw me look
at him and then at you while I said so'*

Mr. Brander pulled up his clerical collar, and
affected to give his hat a jaunty cock.

It's a long time since I've been ' buttered
up and it's so nice," said he.

Why, you have a great following among
the ladies of the village."

I am afraid I look upon them  though
without so much reason  much as you do upon
their counterparts of the opposite sex."

'' And Mrs. Brander, doesn't she, in return
for your services at marketing and nailing pictures,
' butter you up,' too ? "

The gaiety, which had sat so pleasantly on
the usually grave man, suddenly evaporated.
He answered very quietly :

She calls me a good fellow, and  yes, I
think she means it."

They had slackened their steps a little as they

drew near the bottom of the hill where The
Chequers hid the entrance to Ashton Hall Farm.
They had stopped altogether at the bottom to
exchange these last few sentences before saying
farewell. As his last words were succeeded by
a moment's pause, Mr. Brander glanced up the
hill he had to climb to the Vicarage, and became
aware of his brother's portly figure descending
the slope with measured steps toward them. His
cheeks grew pale ; the last gleam of vivacity died
out of his face.

The change caused Olivia to look in
the same direction, and to note that there
was something judicial in the handsome vicar's
gait  something mildly apprehensive in the
expression of his face. She felt an impulse of
indignation against both husband and wife for
their inexplicable rigorous attitude towards
Vernon Brander and herself. At sight of his
brother, Vernon, who seemed at once to grow
cold and formal, raised his hat, and would have
left her with a few words of fcircwell. But she
held out her hand, and, as he took it with a

flushing face, she retained his with a warm
grasp, while she said 

I am going to get papa to waylay you, Mr.
Brander, as you come back from the Vicarage.
You have never been inside the house since the
day you played fairy godmother to me and
poor Lucy. I want you to see the old house
now we have made it again a home."

I shall be delighted. Miss Denison," faltered
poor Vernon, with one ear for her kindly words
and the other for his brother's deliberately approaching
footsteps. " You are very kind to me,"
he added, in a hasty undertone. Then, in his usual
voice, 'good-night," said he, as she released his
hand, and, with a bow to the vicar, turned to
the farmyard gate.

With a few steps on either side  dignified in
the one, hurried and nervous in the other  the
brothers met. The elder passed his arm affectionately
within that of the younger, and turned
to walk up the hill with him.

*' Evelyn began to be afraid you had forgotten
us and our dinner in pleasant society

than ours," said Meredith, in his genial
voice.

If Yemon, as his nervous manner suggested,
was afraid of his brother, the fault lay in his
own conscience, and not in any coldness or
harshness on the part of the Yicar of Eishton.

No," said Yemon, hastily ; " I had not
forgotten. Of course not. Miss Denison was
annoyed by a rough as she was crossing the
fields ; I came up just in time  by the merest
accident  and I could do no less than see her
home."

Of course not. Not a very great penance
either. What an extremely pleasant-looking
girl ! '

It was characteristic of the vicar's warm,
expansive nature that he found enjoyment in
all goodly things ; and he never attempted to
hide the pleasure the sight of a beautiful woman
gave him, although, as in the present instance,
he remembered his cloth in the expression
of it.

She is very handsome," said Yemon,

whose candour went a step farther than his
brother's.

And amiable ? "

By that one means sympathetic to oneself,
I suppose. Yes, I find her amiable," said the
younger man, with a sort of dogged defiance in
his tone.

Then you are pretty intimate already ? "

The vicar spoke without the least harshness,
but the answer came in an almost sullen tone,
as if Vernon's own conscience were reproaching
him.

Not very. This is the fourth time I have
met her."

But, dear me, with these sweet-faced girls,
one gets over the ground so fast ! " suggested
the elder more genially than ever.

That depends. There's not much about
me to fascinate a beautiful woman."

Oh, I didn't mean that : I certainly did not
mean that. But we had looked upon you  you
had taught us to look upon you  as a confirmed
bachelor ; almost a misogynist."

No, not that," interrupted the younger,
abiniptly. *' I have always admired women, in
my way, at least as much as you have in yours
unluckily for me," he added in a bitter,
mocking tone.

And now your admiration is to take shape
in a definite preference for one ? " said the vicar,
rather diffidently.

Vernon was restless and uneasy ; he snapped
twigs off the hedge as he walked along, and
seemed unable to look his brother in the face.

What does my preference matter ? " he
asked, at last, almost fiercely. " What did it
matter before, except to bring upon me the shame
and shadow of my whole life ? "

His brother looked shocked and planned at
this outburst. He put his arm, which Vernon
had thrown off, again most persuasively through
that of the younger man.

Come, come," he said, very earnestly and
very affectionately ; " you must not talk like
that. You lead a life  voluntarily, mind, else
there would be no grandeur, no dignity in it

so full of austerity and self-sacrifice that you
are winning yourself almost the reputation of a
saint. You have shown an example of courage
and endurance such as few men would have the
steadfastness to follow  not I, for one, I admit.
You are loved by your parishioners. And it is
scarcely too much to say that by your own
family  Evelyn, myself, and the little ones 
you are adored."

The Yicar of Eishton watched his brother's
face closely as he pronounced these words in full
tones of deep feeling. They took effect at once.
The thin, sensitive face relaxed, and a faint smile
hovered on Vernon's lips as he answered 

You are all very good to me, and I love
you for it ; but you don't need to be told that
now. As for all that about my being a saint
and a martyr, it is nonsense, and only a kind
way of putting the fact that ten years ago "

Now why trouble yourself about what
happened ten years ago ? " interrupted the
vicar in grave but most gentle tones. "The
evil wrought then has been bitterly repented

and atoned for in a manner so noble that I can
scarcely speak of it without tears."

'* Noble ? Nonsense ! There was nothing
in what I have done but the outcome of a most
commonplace human feeling. I don't wish to
deceive you about that, or get more credit than
is due to me*

Well, I will say no more on the point. It
is not for me to contradict you. For, whatever
may have been our relative positions ten years
ago, your life since then has made you a better
man than I, and I bow to you as to my
superior."

It was very gracefully said, with a warmth
and sincerity of tone which made it no empty
compliment from the handsome, much-revered
vicar to the hermit-parson of ruinous St. Cuthbert's.
The latter received it with a restive,
deprecatory, impatient wave of the hand ; but
yet a keen observer, who had looked from the
one face to the other at that moment, would
almost have been inclined to say that the elder,
whether or not he quite meant what he said.

bad spoken the truth, and that the worn features
and keen grey eyes of the younger man revealed
higher capacities for good than the bland, benevolent,
and good-humoured countenance of his
brother. Ten years ago, before the tragic event
which had been the turning point of Vernon's
life, the reverse of this would have been true.
Passionate, reckless, and hot tempered, he would
have looked, beside his open-faced brother, like
the evil angel beside the good. But a decade
of unruffled prosperity on the one hand, and
the same period of austere self-sacrifice on the
other, had told their tale ; and the man over
whom there hung the shadow of a fearful crime
now threatened, by long humility and devotion,
to oust from the first place in the esteem of the
rough mining population the irreproachable and
kindly Yicar of Ashton himself.

Meredith had spoken the last words in a
decisive tone, as if he considered the discussion
at an end. But from the expression of his
brother's face, it was clear that he had yet
something to say  something of more import

than anything that had yet passed between
them.

You have tried me long enough to trust
my discretion a little, Meredith ; but I don't
know how you will take wiat I am going to
tell yoa." He hurried on in an agitated voice,
without looking his brother in the face. " I
have never been a misogynist ; perhaps I shall
not always be a bachelor. Mind, I only say
perhaps."

There was a long pause. They tramped up
the hill side by side without exchanging so
much as a look, until the pretty gables of the
Vicarage were in sight, peeping out behind the
massive evergreens and the yet bare lilac
branches of the vicar's garden. Then Meredith
spoke, in the most subdued and gentlest of
voices 

You are the best, indeed, the only possible
judge of your owen conduct, Yernon ; but I fear
that, to a nature like yours, the thought of
having caused suffering to a woman you love
will some day be very bitter."

His voice seemed to fade away on the last
words, as it did at the pathetic points of his
sermons. His eloquence again took effect on
the sensitive Yernon.

My wife  if indeed I ever had a wife 
should never know the truth," said he, in a low
and husky voice.

Oh, but she will ! " said Meredith, with
energy. " Do not deceive yourself on that
point ; you cannot deceive me. No one can
prevent your marrying ; I, for one, shall never
utter another word against such a step ; but, if
you do take it, your ten years' silence, as far as
the feelings of others are concerned, will have
been in vain."

There was another pause  a short one this
time. Then Vernon spoke, in a harsh and
broken voice 

Be satisfied. No woman shall ever suffer
through me  again. I will bear it to the end 
alone."

Spoken bravely  spoken like yourself,"
began the Vicar of Eishton, in his usual firm

and cheerful tones. He was about to say more,
when his speech was checked by the sight of a
man's face peering over the wall of a small,
neglected garden, which adjoined the vicar's
own premises on a lower level of the hill.

The face was that of a stranger, but of a
stranger who apparently took a deep interest in
his surroundings. Meredith Brander examined
his features with frank and rather puzzled
interest, while Vernon scanned the face with an
intentness which almost savoured of dread. The
stranger, on his side, gave them a nod of free-and-easy
greeting, which they returned by a
more conventional salute, as they proceeded up
the hi.

Who is that man ? " asked Meredith, as if
trying to recall some memory connected with the
features he had just seen.

I don't know," answered the brother, in a
troubled voice. His brother looked inquiringly.

Have you seen him before ? I can't quite
make up my mind whether he is a stranger tome
or not."

He is a stranger," said Yernon ; *' probably
the man who has taken the cottage. I heard
this morning that it was let at last."

You don't know his name, then ? "

Mat Oldshaw, who told me, did not mention
his name."

No more was said on the subject of the
stranger by either of the brothers, both of whom
remained apparently in deep thought for the few
remaining steps of their walk.

The gravity of both faces lightened when, on
reaching the Vicarage, the sounds of childish
voices broke upon their ears. Mrs. Meredith
Brand er prided herself on nothing so much as
on being a " sensible woman ; " and, as there is
no sign of want of sense in a woman so marked
as the spoiling of children, she even went a little
way in the opposite direction, and kept her
young daughter of ten and her small son of
six in somewhat rigorous subjection. Not only
did she honour the old-fashioned saying that
'' children should be seen and not heard," but
she went so far as to think that the less seen of

them the better. Her husband, who was an
affectionate and even demonstrative father, would
have had them much more about the house, but
he yielded in all domestic matters implicitly to
his wife's ruling, and, as she had decreed that
the proper place for children was the nursery, in
the nursery they for the most part remained.
Therefore, the children had come back in a cab
with the luggage, instead of with papa and
mamma in the pony carriage, and they were on
their way upstairs towards their own domain
when their father and uncle came in and caught
them.

Vernon Brander's haggard face lighted up
with an expression of deep tenderness as the
little girl turned on hearing the gentleman's
footsteps, and, with a shrill cry of childish
delight, ran down a few steps, and flung her
little arms tempestuously round his neck.

Uncle Yernie ! Uncle Yernie 1 " she cooed

breathlessly into his ear. " Oh, I have such a

lot to tell you, and I've such a heap of shells

for you, and some seaweed for you to dry ; and

c 2

oh ! I have so wanted to see you, and have you
with us there by the sea. It would have been
lovely if only you'd been there ! "

** Come, come, you earn eying, journeying
little sixpenn'orth of halfpence," said Uncle
Yernon, seating himself on the stairs and
putting his arm affectionately round her little
waist, " don't pretend it wasn't lovely without
me, or that you're glad the holiday's over so that
you can see your old uncle again."

But I am, though, whether you believe it
or not," said the child, gravely, looking into the
wrinkles of the clergyman's face with affectionate
solicitude. " The sea was beautiful,
and it was nice to have no lessons, and to seethe
pretty people, and to have new walks, instead
of the old ones we're so tired of. But
there was no one to tell what one thought, no
one to look at me like you look. Uncle Verie 
no one to hug like this."

And, suiting the action to the word, she
crushed up his head and face in a stifling
embrace.

At that moment tke drawing-room door
opened, and Mrs. Brander, handsome, erect, and
neat as a statue, came upon the scene.

Kate, you are forgetting yourself, my
dear," she said in a tone of gentle but decided
reproof. "Your uncle does not mind a kiss,
but a bear's hug is neither lady-like nor welcome."


The child withdrew her arms at once, and
relapsed into the unnatural demeanour of a sensitive
child snubbed. Vernon grew red, and
passed his hand over the little girl's fair head
with more than paternal tenderness.

Don't be hard upon the child, Evelyn," he
said, in a low voice. " You who have children
of your own don't know what pleasure that
'bear's hug' can give to a childless man."

Meredith Brander, who had been playing
with his little boy, looked uneasily towards his
brother at this speech.

What a fuss you make about that child ! "
said Mrs. Brander, lightly, as if anxious to turn
the conversation.!

And, coming to the staircase, she picked tip
the little girl's hat, which had fallen off in the
course of her excited greetings, and, telling her
to run upstairs and get her face washed, Mrs.
Brander invited her brother-in-law, with a
welcoming gesture, to come with her into the
drawing-room.

Vernon followed with scarcely-disguised
reluctance, which the lady did not fail to perceive.


What is the matter with you, Vernon ? *'
she asked, as she seated herself by an open
work-basket, and immediately began operations
upon an embroidered pinafore. " There is a
change in you since we went away ; you have
either grown less sociable, or else you have
found some society more congenial than ours.
Sit down ; that pacing to and fro fidgets me."

Vernon stopped in front of her, but did not
seat himself.

Do you know," he began, abruptly, " that I
have just gone through a lengthy catechism of
this sort at the hands of your husband ? I have

given the fullest answers to all his questions,
and he can pass on to you any information you
may require''

In spite of the peremptoriness of his words,
his tone was almost pleading ; and in his face,
as he looked down upon her, there was an
expression of chivalrous kindliness which took
all harshness out of his speech.

Mrs. Brander, glancing up at him, drew a
breath of relief.

I was almost beginning to fear, Vernon,
that you had formed, or were on the point
of forming, new ties which would make you
forget the old ones."

Mrs. Brander's voice was not capable of
expressing much deep emotion ; but she lowered
it, as she said these words, to the softest pitch it
could reach.

Forget ! " he echoed. " That is a process
my mind is incapable of. I think you know
that, Evelyn."

She gave him a straightforwardly affectionate
look out of her handsome eyes.

'' Perhaps I do, Yernon," she said gently.
Perhaps I think your mind incapable of any
process by which you could bring suffering upon
another person."

Vernon looked down into her beautiful face
critically. There was genuine anxiety in her
expression, but it did not touch him as much asa
similar expression on those comely features
had been wont to do. For the last few weeks
he had been haunted by another woman's face,
one which betrayed most ingenuously every
thought of the owner's mind, every impulse of a
warm young heart. Mrs. Brander was intelligent
enough to have an idea of the truth ; and
when she saw that her soft speech left him
comparatively cold, she did not waste another on
him, but rose' from her seat with a sigh, and
bent over her table in such a way that he could
not see her face. The sensitive Yernon
instantly began to imagine tears in her eyes,
drawn forth by his own hardness. He was
seeking words to comfort her when the door
opened, and Meredith came in. His genial

presence seemed on the instant to relieve the
embarrassment of the other two. .

It seems to me, my dear," he began to his
wife, " that Kitty is not looking any the better
for her stay at Bournemouth. I went upstairs
with the children just now, and I was quite
struck with the paleness of the child's
cheeks."

As the vicar uttered these words, a change
came rapidly over his brother's face. He
glanced from father to mother with an expression
of the deepest anxiety, which Mrs. Brander,
while answering her husband in calm and
measured tones, did not fail to note.

I think you worry yourself unnecessarily
about the child. She's tired now after her
journey ; she will probably look all right again
tomorrow."

The vicar allowed himself to be pacified by
his wife's assurances, and, leading his brother
away to the fireplace, they occupied themselves,
until the announcement of dinner, in discussing
the trifling events which had happened in the

parish during the vicar's absence. Mrs. Brander
listened with an especially attentive ear while
her brother-in-law gave a somewhat detailed
account of the arrival of the new occupants of
Bishton Hall Farm, including, as it necessarily
did, the story of his own assistance at their
installation.

Mrs. Brander did not attempt to deceive
herself as to the strong measure of interest
which the beautiful young farmer's daughter
had excited in Yernon. Neither did she
disguise from herself the anxiety and annoyance
which this discovery caused her. Instead, however,
of indulging in any feelings of feminine
jealousy, she set herself to try to devise a way
of ousting this rival. A ray of light broke
suddenly over her handsome face.

When I spoke of my own suffering, he was
certainly not so much touched as he used to be,"
she reflected. '* On the other hand, anything
connected with Kitty seems to move him more
than ever. I must play Kitty against this Miss
Venison'*

And, without any of the pangs of a jealous
woman, Mrs. Brander, with a glance at her
innocent brother-in-law, made a calm resolution
as to the part she should play in what she
perceived to be an incipient love affair.

A STRANGER IN Piston.

Vernon Brander left his brother's house that
evening in a frenzy of doubt and uncertainty,
such as his passionate, self-torturing nature was
liable to. He had so long been bound in a
dutiful and chivalrous vassalage to his sister-in-law,
seeing her faults without being repelled by
them, and in all things doing her reverent homage
as to his early ideal, that it came upon him
with a shock to discover suddenly, as he had
done this evening, that she had fallen from that
high place in his imagination. He tried in vain
to hide from himself the fact that this change in
his feelings was due to the appearance on the
scene of a rival who was carrying away all before
her. Mrs. Brander had, on previous occasions,
scoffed at his adoration of children ; she had often
shown clearly how little she cared for his feelings
; but never before to-night had she seemed

to him cold, and hard, and selfish ; never before
had it occurred to him to think how lacking she
was in feminine softness and charm.

Following on this discovery came the inevitable
consciousness who it was that had brought
about this knowledge. K he had not looked
lately into a softer pair of eyes, if he had not
felt the touch of a warmer hand, if, in short, he
had never met Olivia Denison, he would have
gone on comfortably in his platonic worship of
the only woman of his acquaintance who had
any of those elements of beauty and grace which
were necessary to his somewhat fastidious standard.
But the advent of the beautiful, warmhearted,
impulsive young girl had changed all
that ; and Yernon, as he remembered the promises
he had made to his brother and his
brother's wife, and recognised clearly enough
that by the circumstances of his life he was
bound to remain in bachelor loneliness, felt that
the burden of a bygone sin was heavier upon
him than he could bear.

He was going gloomily down the hill, and

had nearly reached the foot of it, when a rather
rough voice, with an inflection which was english
and strange, addressed him quite close
to his ear.

Could you oblige me with a light ? "
Yernon, who had his pipe between his lips,
stopped, and offered the stranger his matchbox.
The night was dark, but he was able to recognise
in this abrupt-mannered person the man he
and Meredith had seen that evening leaning on
the garden wall of the cottage adjoining the
Vicarage. There had been something suspicious
about the stranger's manner then; there was
something more now. He took the proffered
matchbox, struck a light, and, instead of applying
it to a cigar he had ready in his mouth, held
it close enough to Vernon's face to get a good
view of every feature.

The clergyman, returning his gaze, grew
deadly pale. He did not flinch, however, but
settling his face with the hard determination of
a man accustomed to bear pain, submitted to the
scrutiny in dogged silence.

Thank you," said the stranger slowly, ashe
threw away the match, which had burnt
down, and struck another, with which he proceeded
to light his cigar. "You are the first
person about here who has shown what in other
parts we should call common civility. A rough
lot, these Yorkshiremen ! "

"And they don't always improve much in
manners by going abroad," said Yernon, quietly.

The other remained silent for a moment,
peering at him in the darkness. Then he spoke
again, more courteously than before.

You take me for a Yorkshireman, then ? "

Yes ; I can hear the Yorkshire burr
through some accent you have picked up since."

Well, you're a smart chap for a parson,"
said the other, approvingly. " You'll excuse
my frankness ; but I'm a plain man, and I
dare say my manners are none the more polished
for fifteen years spent among cattle drovers.
They're not the sort of company to make one fit
for Buckingham Palace."

I suppose not," said Yernon. " And you

have said good-bye to them, and come back to
settle down in your native county ? "

For a little while  a year, or maybe two*
answered the stranger with great deliberateness.
I haven't come over here to sit still and
twiddle my thumbs for the rest of my life."

Why, there's plenty of work to be done
here in the old country."

Yes, it's work brings me over here, and
hard work, too, by what I hear," said the other,
looking penetratingly at the clergyman through
shrewd, half-shut eyes.

He gave the impression of being able to see
in the dark as well as any owl, and Vernon felt
that he himself was still being subjected to the
same keen inspection which had been begun by
the light of the match. He, on his side, could
see enough of the stranger's appearance to feel
curiously interested in him. This abrupt and
somewhat uncouth person was a man whose age
was difficult to guess. That he was still in the
vigour and prime of life was evident, but it was
not so certain whether the rugged furrows in his

face, and a certain deliberateness of speech and
action, were signs of approaching middle age, or
the result of heavy responsibilities and hardwork
begun early in life. The lower part of his
face was covered and much concealed by a short
beard of a fashion long grown obsolete in
England ; he was dressed with that sort of solid
respectability which disregards expense and also
the fashion of the moment, while a huge gold
watch-chain, to which was attached a bunch of
heavy and handsome seals, gave the final touch
to a get-up which was nothing if not confidence-inspiring.
The man looked both shrewd and
honest, particularly the former : Vernon felt
every moment more and more eagerly interested
as to the reason of his presence in the village.

You know that we parsons are privileged
impertinents ? '' began Vernon, after a short
pause.

Yes," answered the stranger, promptly.

"Perhaps you know too that I have been
until to-day 'deputy shepherd' here at Ashton?"

d

'' I know that, too," admitted the other.

Then perhaps you will let me ask if you
are the new tenant of Church Cottage ? "

Well, there's nothing gained or lost by
admitting that I am ; and further, I don't mind
telling you that I'd as soon the cottage were a
little farther off the church. One can't expect
to live in the odour of sanctity for nothing, and
with a parson living next door, and religious
consolation therefore always turned on, I shall
feel, so to speak, always under the tap."

You needn't be afraid of that with my
brother," said Yernon, smiling. "I suppose
there never was a man with less professional
cant about him. He'll talk to a neighbour
about his fruit trees, his pigs, his poultry, and
everything that is his, but never a word of religion,
unless the subject is introduced by somebody
else."

*' I see ; won't give professional advice for
nothing ? Well, I respect him for it ; there's no
good in making your wares too cheap. Guess
your brother and me '11 get along."

What could the work be which brought this
keen-eyed, prosperous-looking colonist  for a
colonist it was not difficult to guess that he
must be  to a sleepy little hole like Eishton,
where commerce was restricted to the weekly
buying and selling in Matherham market, and
to the still humbler traffic in the small wares of
half-a-dozen puny village shops ? Vernon was
shy of asking him point-blank the nature of his
work ; indeed, something in the stranger's
manner intimated pretty plainly that he would
not have given the required information. And
no hints sufficed to draw him out. The Yicar
of St. Cuthbert's made one such attempt, which
failed most signally.

"You will find also," said he, *that my
brother is a practical man, and any help that he
can give you in the work you speak of he will
offer most willingly, I know."

But to this speech the first reply of the
colonist was a sardonic laugh.

I daresay he will," said he, drily, when his
hard merriment had suddenly ceased. " For the
d 2

matter of that, a man with a serious object
before him, who has his head screwed on the
right way, can get help of some sort from everybody
he comes nigh to. And so, Mr. Brander,
I make no doubt I shall get assistance in my
work, not only from your brother, but from
yourself."

And with these words, uttered in a tone of
some significance, he turned on his heel with an
abrupt nod, and made his way with characteristically
heavy and deliberate steps towards the
gate of the cottage.

Yernon Brander watched the solidly-built
figure disappearing in the dusk, and then proceeded
on his way down the hill in some
agitation of spirit. The shadow of the old
crime was creeping up again ; the tragedy
which ten years had not lived down was reappearing
with a new and ghastly vividness
in the presence of that matter-of-fact stranger.
Who he might be Vernon could scarcely guess ;
what the nature of his work was in a quiet
village flashed upon him with an intuition

wliicli left no room for doubt. The feelings
produced by this thought were not all gloomy ;
a certain hungry look, which betokened perhaps
that even open shame would be welcome after
ten years of silent ignominy, burned in the
clergyman's dark eyes as he lifted his head and
gazed into the blue-black night sky above him
with a piercing intentness which seemed to be
trying to fathom the mysteries of the future.

On reaching the bottom of the hill, he was
startled out of his reverie by a bright girl's
voice and a gentle touch on his arm. He
stopped short and lowered his head dreamily,
almost inclined to think, in the high state of
excitement to which he had been worked, that
the sweet voice, the kindly touch, were a
prophecy of happiness rather than the commonplace
incident of an every-day greeting. The
next moment, however, he came fully to
himseK, and found that he was in the presence,
not only of Olivia Denison, but of her
father.

Mr. Brander, come down from the clouds,

if you please, and leave your next Sunday's
sermon to take care of itself for a little while.
I want to introduce you to my father."

Mr. Denison, a tall, strikingly handsome
man of about fifty years of age, with a gentle,
kindly face entirely destitute of any trace of
his daughter's energy and impulsive frankness,
held out his hand with a very willing smile.

"I am very happy to make your acquaintance,
Mr. Brander, and to be able to thank
you for your great kindness to my little
daughter here."

He patted Olivia's shoulder affectionately,
but it seemed to the clergyman, as he looked
from the one face to the other, that the action
was scarcely typical of the mutual relations
between gentle, vacillating father and quick-witted,
active daughter.

Miss Denison is so much more valiant
and self-helpful than most young ladies that she
spurs one up to do more for her than one
would for others," said Yernon.

'' Yet this afternoon you would not allow

that I could help papa," put in Olivia, reproachfully.


Didn't I rather suggest that the help you
really gave was of a different kind from what
you imagined ? "

She gives me help of all kinds," said her
father, affectionately. " She's my clerk and my
comforter ; and I think, if the farm-hands struck
work, she'd take to the plough as naturally as
she's taken to the poultry."

"Well, I'd certainly try my hand at it,"
said the girl, laughing. " I suppose the chief
qualifications are a steady hand and a correct
eye, and both these I've acquired at billiards."

My dear Olivia, you mustn't own to playing
billiards before a clergyman ! "

And why not, Mr. Denison ? " asked
Vernon. " I love a good game of billiards
myself; and the strongest reasons that keep
me out of old Williams's billiard-room up at
the Manor Hall are old Williams's inability to
play a decent game, and his son's inability to
make a decent remark."

Olivia gave an exclamation of disgust at this
passing allusion to her importunate admirer :
Mr. Denison seemed relieved by the clergyman's
admission.

I've not come much in contact with
gentlemen of your calling," said he ; " and I
have rather a feeling that I must be on my
best behaviour before them."

A very proper feeling, and one that I wish
you could communicate to some of the gentlemen
engaged in mining occupations among my
parishioners. It's a much healthier symptom
than throwing bricks."

'' Did they throw bricks at you?" asked
Olivia, indignantly.

'' Not so many as they used to do," said
Vernon, with a twinkle in his eye, which was,
however, not discernible in the increasing
darkness. " I found a way to cure them of
that."

'' What was that ? "

I threw them back."

Mr. Denison did not attempt to disguise the

fact that his respect for and appreciation of
the Church was rising rapidly. It was with
a cordiality very different from the formal
gratitude he had shown at the outset that he
presently begged the clergyman to do himself
and his wife the pleasure of lunching with them
on the following or an early day.

I am very anxious to introduce you to my
wife," said he. " She used to try hard to get
me to receive what I irreverently called her
pet parsons ; ' but I had heard them preach,
and that was enough for me. Now, you see, I
can bring forward a candidate of my own."

That's unfortunate, because I can't come
tomorrow ; and the next day is Sunday. And
perhaps, if you hear me preach, you may want
to retract your invitation."

Well, we must chance that," said Mr.
Denison, smiling. " But I can trust a par  no,
I mean a clergyman, who knows something
about the tables of slate as well as the tables of
stone. Remember, we are only poor farmer
folk now ; the glory of Streatham has departed.

But we shall make you heartily welcome ; and
you must forgive the absence of champagne.
Now, what day will you come ? "

May I say this day week ? " said Yernon,
after considering a moment. " For the next few
days I have work to do a long way off, which
will make any sort of meal an impossibility. I
shall live upon bread and coal-dust ; and you
must not be surprised if I turn up with the
complexion of Othello, and with a little of his
savagery, after a week's intercourse with the
blackest and roughest race in Yorkshire."

The following Friday was, therefore, fixed
upon as the day on which the Eev. Yernon
Brander was to make formal acquaintance with
Eishton Hall Farm and its new masters. And,
with a mutual liking which opened a pleasant
prospect of future acquaintance, the two
gentlemen bade each other good night, and
separated.

But, if they had only known it, there was a
strong woman's will working against any such
happy consummation. Mrs. Meredith Brander,

for reasons of her own, had conceived the intention
of doing what she could to form an impassable
bridge between her brother-in-law and the
household at Eishton Hall Farm. She shrewdly
guessed that her best chance lay through the
step-mother; but for a day or two she took no
active steps, contenting herself with gleaning
all the information she could concerning the
character and habits of each member of the
Denison family. Mr. Denison, she decided, was
not of much account ; Mrs. Denison, a vain, half-educated
woman, exalted above her natural
station, ought, with judicious treatment, to be
easy to deal with. It was with the handsome,
high-spirited Olivia herself that the difficulty lay,
and Mrs. Brander felt that she must proceed
with caution.

In the meantime, the new inmate of the
cottage was exciting much general interest, and
some suspicion. He lived entirely by himself,
but for such companionship as was afforded him
by Mrs. Wall, during the two or three hours
a day when she jogged slowly through his

apartments with a broom and a pail, and generally
did for '' him. He drove such a hard bargain
with this lady, and lived so simply, that the
belief was soon spread among the villagers that
he was very poor, that his big watch-chain was
brass, and that his solid manner and imperative
speech were mere empty " swagger."

The Eeverend Meredith Brander was shrewd
enough to think differently. There was a weight
and solidity about the speech and manner of the
new-comer which it is not given to the mere
waifs and strays of the earth to acquire. When
he passed an opinion, which was seldom, for he
was apparently of reticent disposition, it was
with the evident belief, not only that it was
worth listening to, but that it would' be listened
to. The vicar tried hard, in every decent and
graceful way, to win from him some information
as to who he was and what he did there ; but
his geniality and his personal charm had no perceptible
effect on the stranger, who kept even
his name a secret, and steadily declined Mr.
Brander's invitations to him to dine at the

Yicarage, or to play a game of chess with him
in the evenings.

I'm sure you must find it dull alone in the
cottage at night," the vicar would say to him
cheerily; 'for one can see with half an eye that
you've been used to an active life, with lots of
movement and all sorts of society. Why don't
you let yourself be persuaded into sitting by a
warm hearth instead of a cold one, with a woman
and children about, too ? All globe-trotters love
the atmosphere of women and children."

"I can bear with 'em, but I'm not excited
about either species," the stranger answered one
day to his neighbour's persuasions. " I've had a
wife and children myself ; but I'm bound to say
I get on quite as comfortably without them."

Tf this unorthodox speech was meant to shock
the vicar, it failed of its effect ; for Meredith
Brander had no puritanical horror of human
frailties and eccentricities, but a cheery belief
that they gave a healthy outlet to the dangerous
humours of the world.

He discussed the new-comer with his wife,

who, however, took scarcely enough interest in
the subject to set her feminine wits to work
towards solving the mystery which hung about
him.

I don't know why you make so much fuss
about him," she said rather contemptuously one
day, when her husband had been recounting his
fruitless efforts to induce the stranger to dine
with them. " And I am sure I am thankful that
he had the sense not to come. To judge by his
manners he has been a navvy, who went gold-digging
and picked up a nugget; and to judge
by his coming here and the way he lives, the
nugget was somebody else's, and he has to live
perdu until the little affair has blown over."

The vicar made no reply to this ; but there
was evidently nothing convincing to him in his
wife's contempt for the stranger. When he
spoke again, it was upon a fresh subject.

Vernon's getting very thick with the new
people at the Hall Farm. I met him to-day arm
in arm with papa, and I hear that he's going to
dine with them next Friday. Now, papa is a

very amiable man, though lie may not be over-endowed
with brains ; but I suppose it is not
far-fetched to imagine that there may be another
attraction."

Mr. Brander spoke in his usual light and
genial tones, without even the touch of seriousness
he had shown when treating of this same
subject with his brother. But the effect of his
words on his wife was instant and strong. The
lines of her handsome mouth grew straight and
hard, her low, handsome forehead puckered with
an anxious frown as she said sharply 

He must be stopped."

The vicar, raising his eyebrows blandly,
stroked his chin, and looked out of the
window.

*' Yes, my dear, I admit that it would be very
much for the best if he could be stopped ; but
the question is, how is it to be done? All we
can do is to persuade, exhort, advise. And
haven't we done it  perhaps even overdone it ?
If Vernon takes it seriously into his head that
he will marry, why, marry he will ; and I don't

see how all the king's horses and all the king's
men can prevent him."

"Perhaps not," said his wife, icily. *but
can.

Her month, which was Mrs. Brander's most
eloquent feature, closed with almost a snap, and
strongly suggested the idea that her interest in
her brother-in-law's matrimonial inclinations was
not purely benevolent.

Well, my dear, there is no denying that it
would be for the best if you could prevent this
rather foolish flirtation with a particularly headstrong
girl from coming to anything. One can
scarcely think that this type of girl, for all her
beauty and the high spirit I think we must allow
her, would make him happy as a wife."

''I hadn't thought of the matter from that
point of view," said Mrs. Brander, drily.

The vicar glanced rather uneasily at his wife,
whose habit of looking at things from a purely
matter-of-fact and practical point of view
sometimes jarred upon his more easy-going
nature.

He rose from his seat, and prepared to leave
the room.

But you should, my dear; you should," he
said, in a gently reproachful tone, as he came to
the back of her chair and, gently stroking her
dark hair with his plump white hand, printed an
affectionate kiss on the smooth white forehead,
from which the frown had scarcely yet departed.

As soon as her husband had left the room,
Mrs. Brander gave herself up to resolute consideration
of a difficult and delicate plan of
action. After some time she came to a decision,
and her face cleared.

'* To-day is Wednesday," she said to herself,
glancing at an almanac on her writing-table.
This dinner, or luncheon, or whatever it is, is
not till Friday. Then I have tomorrow to
work in."

And she rose with a sigh of relief, and went
about her household duties with a lighter heart,
feeling that she had provided for the fulfilment
of a very disagreeable task in a rather able
manner.

On the following afternoon Mrs. Brander,
after a short drive in the neighbourhood, drove
her little ponies np to the door of Eishton Hall
Farm to make her first call upon Mrs. Denison.
The latter lady had already expressed some indignation
that the vicar's wife had not called
upon her before, and had even announced her
intention of being " not at home " to Mrs.
Brander, to show her sense of the folly of such
airs in a woman who ought, by virtue of her
husband's office, to be the humblest in the
parish. However, what happened when the
smart-looking little pony-carriage drew up at
the door was this : the farmer's wife, after peeping
through the dining-room curtains, in a
flutter of excitement, rushed across the hall to
the drawing-room, with a hoarse whisper of
directions to the approaching housemaid, and
greeted the visitor, on her entrance, with a
mixture of dignity and effusiveness, which the
vicar's wife met with her usual straightforward,
matter-of-fact simplicity of manner. Mrs.
Brander had brought her ten-year-old daughter

with her, less for companionship than for the
reason, which she would at once frankly have
owned, that the child's fragile fairness formed
an admirable complement to her own brunette
beauty. The child also served to make the
introduction of the two ladies less formal, as her
presence resulted in Mrs. Denison's sending for
her own two spoilt children, whom Mrs. Brander
greeted courteously, but without effusiveness.
Indeed, she afterwards described them as the
two most intolerable little offences against
humanity she had ever met, and she was much
too frank to do more than veil this feeling even
in the presence of their mother, whose caresses
of the little Kate and compliments on her
beauty evidently excited in the more sensible
of the two mothers no approval whatever.

The vicar's wife had something in her mind
that she considered of far more importance than
any matter connected with mere children.
Before very long she brought the conversation
round to Olivia Denison, of whom she took
care to speak with such exceedingly moderate



University OF irirMnrc*

approbation as she thought likely to suit a stepmother's
taste. Mrs. Denison was delighted to
meet some one who did not go into the usual
raptures about the young girl's beauty and
amiability.

Olivia is not a bad sort of girl," she admitted,
in a patronising tone. " But she has
been terribly spoilt by her father. Her temper
is almost unbearable, and I regret to say that
she does not scruple to indulge it on my poor
children."

I should think you would be glad to get
her married and settled, both for her sake and
your own, then," said Mrs. Brander. 'she
is a showy sort of girl, who ought to marry
even here."

Mrs. Denison looked for a moment rather
embarrassed.

'well, certainly," she admitted grudgingly.
A gentleman has already made his appearance
who seems to be attracted by her  at least, so
her father thinks. I myself shall not see him
till tomorrow, when he comes to luncheon here."

Indeed ! " cried Mrs. Brander, raising lier
eyebrows with great apparent interest. '' I
wonder if it is anyone I know ? " Mrs. Denison
gave a Kettle cough of uncertainty.

Well' she said at last, with some hesitation,
'' I hope I'm not letting out a secret, but
it is your own brother-in-law, Mr. Vernon
Brander."

Mrs. Brander almost started from her chair
in well simulated horror and surprise.

Vernon ! " she exclaimed, in a low voice.
Impossible ! " Mrs. Denison turned pale.

"Why not?" she faltered. "Surely there
is nothing against the vicar's brother ? "

Mrs. Brander hesitated, in much apparent
confusion and distress.

I would not for the world have been the
first to break it to you, and even now I scarcely
like to tell you. In fact, I will not unless you
will promise that it shall make no difference in
your treatment of the unhappy young fellow,"
she said at last.

Mrs. Denison, shaking with curiosity and

alarm, gave the required promise in an unconvincing
tone.

Years ago," began the vicar's wife in a
tone lowered to escape the children's ears,
Vernon unhappily became involved in an intrigue
with the sister of the man who occupied
this house, and at last, after a quarrel, she
mysteriously disappeared, and has not since been
heard of."

Murdered ! " shrieked Mrs. Denison, startling
the children, who all turned round and
caused her to put sudden constraint upon herself.


Hush ! " said Mrs. Brander, rather alarmed
by the strength of her effect. " We don't like
to think that ; we musfnt think that. But
there is just enough unpleasantness about the
affair. You understand," she murmured, confidentially.


I should think so ! " cried Mrs. Denison,
heartily. " I'll take care that he shall
never "

The vicar's wife interrupted her, laying a

persuasive, but not feeble, band on the arm of
the excited lady.

You will take care never to hint a word
of this to him, or to any one," sbe said, in a
low, but exceedingly authoritative tone. '' You
remember your promise. Without any measure
so strong as that, we women always know how
to give an acquaintance who is in any way undesirable
not too much cold shoulder, but just
cold shoulder enough."

She rose to go, feeling that she had done
enough to accomplish her purpose.

I think that ought to do it," she said to
herself, with subdued and still somewhat
anxious satisfaction, as she whipped up her
ponies, and drove away from the farm.

THE STRANGER DISCLOSES HIMSELF.

The second Mrs. Denison was, unfortunately for
lier husband's household, one of those ladies who
unite in themselves most of woman's typical
frailties. One of the most marked of these was
a great jealousy of any member of her own sex
who was younger, better looking, or in any way
considered more generally attractive than herself.
This jealousy rose to such a pitch in the
case of her handsome step-daughter that she was
more pleased at the discovery of the ineligibility
of Olivia's new admirer than disappointed at the
failure of a prospect of getting rid of her.

In spite of her promises to Mrs. Brander,
Mrs. Denison of course told her husband that
night, with some triumph, what a desperate
character he proposed to introduce into the
bosom of his household on the following day.
But her sensational tirade produced little effect.

Mr. Denison had indeed heard the old story
since he gave the vicar of Saint Cuthbert's his
invitation ; and, to tell the truth, it had rather
tended to increase than diminish the liking he
had taken to the parson. An injudicious liking
for the girls was a humanising foible which he
could understand and excuse. As for the disappearance,
it was an old story, and might contain
an old slander. At any rate, even a murderer
was better than a milksop. So he made light of
his wife's deep-voiced harangue.

Then you mean to take no steps, in the
face of what I have told you, to prevent your
own hearth from being polluted by the presence
of a murderous libertine ? " inquired Mrs. Venison.


'* Well, I'm not going, after inviting a man
to luncheon, to rush out and tell him we have
heard a cock-and-bull story about his doings a
quarter of a century ago, and so we can't let
him come in."

And so Beatrice and Reginald are to get
their ideas of the Church from this man ? I

might have known what sort of a clergyman
you would pick up, who would never receive
Mr. Lovekin or Mr. Butterworth ! I am told
this Mr. Vernon Brander doesn't even dress
like a clergyman."

He wears a round collar," said Mr. Venison
; " perhaps that will save the morals of
Beatrice and Reginald. Anyhow, he doesn't
talk up in his head, like old Buttermilk, and he
doesn't look so like a trussed chicken as that
lean-necked Lovekin used to do."

At least there was no scandal about either
of those gentlemen," said his wife, with dignity.
"A girl could trust herself with either of
them."

She'd have an odd taste if she couldn't."

Perhaps you have no objection to this man
as a suitor for your daughter ? "

He hasn't proposed yet."

"Or to the chance of her being found dead ina
mysterious manner? "

Perhaps he doesn't make away with more
than seventy-five per cent, of the girls he comes

across. Olivia might take her chance," said Mr.
Denison, who was getting sleepy.

This flippancy silenced her for a time ; but
it had for its permanent effect on Mrs. Denison
the strengthening of her resolution to show this
black sheep of the Church what a high-principled
British matron thought of him.

When, next day, the Reverend Yernon
Brander arrived at the farm for luncheon, his
evil star brought him before Olivia had returned
from her morning walk. He was shown into
the drawing-room, where, by Olivia's orders, in
honour of his coming, a fire blazed in the usually
cheerless grate ; for Mrs . Denison, although an
indolent and extravagant housekeeper, practised
from habit a dozen uncomfortable and futile
little economies, which she had learnt in her
childhood's days in her father's small shop. On
learning the guest's arrival, she made no haste
to receive him ; and Yernon was left for sometime
to an uninterrupted study of the room.

He decided at once, his thoughts while in
this house all taking the same direction, that

Olivia seldom or never sat in the room, that she
did not like it, but that, nevertheless, she had
had something to do with the arrangement of it,
and that much of the decorative work, both of
needle and paint brush, with which it was
adorned, was done by her active fingers. The
position of each article of furniture was too
coldly correct to please her, Yernon, used to the
society of a woman of taste, felt sure. There
was no pretty disorder of open book or music,
untidy work basket, with its picturesque overflow
of feminine trifles ; no disarranged cushion ; no
displaced chair. The piano was shut  looked
even as if it might be locked ; the furniture, of
the pretty, modern, spindle-shanked, uncomfortable
type, was evidently scarcely ever used.
Vernon had time to wander about at his leisure
until he found something which roused in him
more than a passing interest. This was a large
photographed head of Olivia, which stood by
itself in a dark corner on a side-table in a handsome
oak frame. It had evidently been taken
quite recently, and was an excellent likeness.

Vernon could not resist the temptation to take
it up and carry it to a window to examine it, ashe
could not do in the obscurity to which it had
been condemned. Then, as he was still left
undisturbed, he put the portrait on a centre
table in the full light, and opening an album
which lay not far off, began hunting for more
photographs of the same girl. He found a page
containing four, taken at different stages of
childhood and gawky young girlhood. Going
down on his knees beside the large portrait, he
held open the album immediately underneath it,
and began tracing out the development of the
woman from the child with the deepest interest.

Absorbed, as his habit was, in the occupation
of the moment, he did not hear, or did not heed,
the approach of footsteps across the hall. The
door had not been properly closed, and, before
he could change his position, it had been thrust
open, and he was in the presence of his hostess.

Glancing from him to the portrait on the
table, and thence to the book in his hand, Mrs.
Denison saw or guessed how he was employed.

and feminine jealousy and dislike increased the
horror and indignation she was nursing against
this homicidal clergyman whom her husband
had chosen to exalt at the expense of her own
chosen divines. She stood with a stony and
most unbecoming face while Yernon, rising
hastily with a bright laugh, shut the album,
and came forward to meet her.

But she put forward no cordial hand, and
vouchsafed him only the coldest little nod of
the head. Vernon mistook the reason of this
reception, confounding the step-mother with the
mother, and supposing that his hostess was in
arms at the liberty he had taken in thus openly
worshipping at the young girl's shrine.

I must apologise for my attitude of apparent
devotion," he said ; " but I was so much
interested in tracing the development of the
child as shown here," and he held out the
album, " into the woman as represented here,"
and he touched the portrait on the table, " that
I did not notice how unnecessarily devout my
position had become."

Yery unnecessarily," assented Mrs. Denison,
in a hard and frigid tone.

Poor Yernon looked much disconcerted.

I hope yon will believe," he began, almost
stammering in his confusion, " that I had no
intention of taking a liberty in admiring your
daughter's portrait so openly "

My 5<?-daughter's ! " interrupted Mrs.
Denison, with a snap.

Oh, ah, yes  I mean your step-daughter's,"
floundered Yernon, more perplexed than
ever. If she did not care about the girl, why
this anger? " You will be so much accustomed
to the admiration Miss Denison excites that
even an eccentric tribute may, I hope, be
excused."

With masculine want of tact he was getting
deeper and deeper into the mire.

The place is not so overrun with admirers
of Olivia Denison as you seem to imagine," said
she, acidly. " There is nothing the matter with
the girl's face ; on the other hand, we are not
accustomed to consider it anything to rave about.

We Londoners like beauty of a more delicate

type."

"If by delicate you mean puny and pale,"
said Yernon, with rash honesty, " you certainly
won't get us up here to agree with you. But
if you mean refined, I can't imagine a face more
ideally satisfying in that respect than Miss
Denison's."

This was the last straw. The one consolation
Mrs. Denison always had ready for herself on
the irritating subject of Olivia's beauty was that
her own flaccid paleness made the girl's bright
colouring look " vulgar." She had made her
entrance in an aggressive mood ; every word the
unfortunate man had uttered had increased her
prejudice against him, and had seemed specially
designed for her annoyance. Inflamed by sullen
anger, and rushing to the favourite conclusion of
the ill-bred that she had been " insulted," Mrs.
Denison let loose upon her guest the vials of her
wrath. She had just enough sense of decency
not to get loud in her anger ; but her thin,
compressed lips and coldly venomous grey eyes

struck a sort of terror into the unsuspecting
clergyman, before her slow words came like the
crash of a thunderbolt upon his ears. Mrs.
Denison prefaced her speech by a hard, short
laugh that scarcely moved the muscles of her
flabby face.

I suppose your taste still runs in the same
direction that it did ten years ago then, and that
you admire red-cheeked farmers' daughters as
much as ever ? "

'* I don't understand you, madam," said
Vernon, growing paler than ever, if that were
possible, but losing his nervousness in the face
of this preposterous attack.

His recovered self-possession irritated Mrs.
Denison, who had expected him to cower under
the onslaught.

Yet, although she was already growing
alarmed at what she had done, she was
too sullenly obstinate to draw back, and she
strengthened herself, even while her breath came
faster and a slight flush came over her face, with
the conviction that she was unmasking villainy,
/

and putting to rout a man who was a disgrace to
his sacred calling.

Indeed, I should have thought that in this
house, of all others, your memory would have
been better."

As Mrs. Denison had remained standing,
Vernon had perforce done the same. He now
took a step to the left, so that the light might
fall on his face as well as on hers as he answered
her.

If you have any accusation to make
against me, will you be kind enough to make
it in so many words, and not in roundabout
hints ? "

He had managed to make the woman feel
the full awkwardness of the position into which
she had brought herself. She hesitated and
stammered, even though her grey eyes did not
flinch from their vindictive stare.

** I  I had heard  everybody has  stories
which  a clergyman, too !  I should never have
thought "

''No. People never do think, when they

bring a vague charge, that they ought to be
ready to substantiate it. Will you tell me what
you heard ? "

I am not to be brought to book in this
way," said Mrs. Denison, recovering herself, and
speaking in a louder voice. " You cannot be
ignorant of the stories about you, and you
cannot be surprised that I don't think you a
fit person to  to be a friend to  to young
girls."

There was a pause, which Mrs. Denison
found very awkward. She stood with one hand
upon a small occasional table, feeling very
anxious that this most obnoxious visitor would
either go or give her an opportunity of going.
Vernon, on his side, stood perfectly still before
her, staring at the floor, not with the shamefaced
look of remorse and guilt, but with an
expression of painful and earnest thought. At
last he raised his head, and his black eyes, full
of passion and fire, met her own cold grey ones
steadily.

You have heard that I caused the
/2

disappearance of a girl ten years ago ? " said
he, not abruptly, but with grave deliberateness.

Er  yes  something  yes  of the sort,"
answered Mrs. Denison, taken aback.

And on sufficiently good authority to
warrant your considering it true ? "

On the very best authority, I never acton
any other," said the lady, hastily.

Vernon looked perplexed, and his tone grew
diffident as he continued 

Then why not have spared me the humiliation
of this reception ? Just two lines sent by
the stable-boy would have been enough, and
you may be sure I should never have troubled
you with what, I hope, has been a painful interview
to you."

Vernon said " hope," and even put a slight
emphasis on the word, as he had a suspicion that
his hostess was ill-natured enough to have found
some enjoyment in his discomfiture. With a
ceremonious and dignified bow he was passing
her on his way to the door, when a genial voice
startled them both, and Mr. Denison entered.

Not being a man of specially quick perceptions,
the new-comer did not at once see that
anything was wrong. He seized Vernon by
both hands, welcomed him in warm words, and
with apologies for having been absent on his
arrival.

"And where's my Olivia?" he went on,
turning to his wife, now observing for the first
time the unpromising frown on that lady's face,
and believing that his daughter's neglect was
the cause. " She should have been here to help
you to entertain Mr. Brander,"

Mrs. Denison began to say something inarticulately,
but Yernon, in a clear and deliberate
voice, said 

'You do Mrs. Denison injustice. Judging
from the manner in which she has entertained
me, I should think she is not only able, but
that she prefers, to do without any assistance."

Mrs. Denison looked both confused and
alarmed, as she stammered something about Mr.
Brander's having misunderstood her. For her
husband, like .many other easy-going men, was

subject to occasional fits of passionate violence,
Avliicli for a woman of Mrs. Denison's cold and
somewhat stodgy temperament had peculiar
terrors.

Misunderstood ! " cried he, in an ominous
tone of surprise and perplexity, ' Misunderstood
what?"

I think the misunderstanding was on the
lady's side*' said Yernon, very calmly, moving a
step nearer the door. " For if Mrs. Denison
really thought that I could comfortably partake
of her hospitality after being accused by her of
unspecified crimes, she made a mistake which I
must now beg to leave her leisure to recognise."

Without giving Mr. Denison, who had
grown during this speech absolutely livid with
anger, time to answer him, Vernon Brander
hurried out of the room, and out of the house.

But Mr. Denison's outbursts of passion, if
violent, were short-lived. After having inveighed
for a few minutes furiously against
woman's talkativeness and woman's indiscretion,
he allowed himself to be talked round by his

wife, into believing that what little she had said
to the Reverend Yemon touching his former
delinquencies, he had brought upon himself by a
very impertinent expression of his admiration
for Olivia. Being at heart a man of peace, and
unable to retain displeasure with any one for
long, Mr. Denison had subsided into an uneasy
and conscience-pricked silence on the subject,
when Olivia's footsteps, bounding through the
hall with the agility of youth and high spirits,
startled both husband and wife.

The girl sprang into the room like a flash
of sunshine, but being far more acute than her
father, the first glance from his face to that of
his wife showed her that something was wrong.

Where's Mr. Brander ? " she asked, abruptly,
already with a dash of suspicion in her
tone. " Lucy told me he'd been here nearly
half an hour."

Mr. Denison walked away to the nearest
window without speaking ; Mrs. Denison leaned
back in the easy chair which she was occupying
with an assumption of easy dignity meant to

conceal the uneasiness which she felt. For to
displease Olivia seriously, much as the elder
woman might affect to ignore the girl's feelings,
was a very different thing from displeasing her
good-tempered father.

"Mr. Brander has been and has gone," said.
Mrs. Denison, with an air of offended dignity.
"He has proved himself unworthy the honour
of being admitted as a friend into my family,
and I never wish to hear his name mentioned
again."

You don't think I'm to be satisfied like
that," said Olivia, very quietly. And then
she stood, with hands clasped, and passionate,
earnest eyes, gazing at her step-mother's doughy
face with a steadfastness which caused that lady
to "fidget" uneasily, and thus to destroy the
effect of her efforts at dignified composure.

You're forgetting yourself strangely, Olivia,
to speak to me in that manner. I am mistress
here, and I am not going to be dictated to by a
chit of a girl."

You have said something, done something.

to send him away; I am sure of it," said the
girl with breathless earnestness, not heeding her
step-mother's fretful protest. " I will know
what it is : I have a right to know. Papa," she
went on, turning towards her father entreatingly,
and speaking in a voice that grew softer the
moment she addressed him, " you know Mr.
Brander has been kind to me, most unselfishly,
disinterestedly kind  and just when I wanted
help and kindness. You would not let him be
rudely treated, would you? You would never
allow your guest to be insulted, I am sure. Tell
me what has happened ; I must know. Do tell
me ; do satisfy me. I am not curious ; I am
miserable until I know."

She had crossed the room to him, put affectionate
hands on his shoulders, and was looking
into his face with tender pleading, far more irresistible
even than his wife's peremptory reasoning
had been. He could not look her in the
face, but frowned, and made feeble and futile
attempts to get rid of the clinging fingers. Mrs.
Denison's hard voice then struck upon their ears.

Really, Edward, you're not going to allow
yourself to be talked over in that way, I hope.
Surely you and I are the best judges as to who
are, and who are not, fit acquaintances for our
children. And when the wife of the vicar of
the parish herself warns me that such-and-such
a man is a criminal of a sort not fit to be
admitted into a decent house, I don't think anyone
can dispute that we have authority for what
we do."

The wife of the vicar ! Mrs. Brander ! "
exclaimed Olivia in bewilderment. " She told
you that about her brother-in-law ? "

Mrs. Denison did not answer. She was
ready to bite her tongue out for her indiscretion
in mentioning her informant's name. She knew
Olivia's impulsive nature, and was very much
afraid that the girl would get her into trouble
with the vicar's wife, with whom she was
anxious to stand well. For Mrs. Brander 's
well-bred simplicity of manner, and a certain air
of being queen of the district which years of
homage had given her, had made a strong

impression on the ex-governess. Olivia read
the truth in her step-mother's confusion, and a
new spring of anger bubbled up in her heart.

The wicked, treacherous woman ! " she
panted, scarcely aloud, but with great vehemence.
He shall know who are the friends who spread
these stories about him."

She was turning impulsively towards the
door, drawing on as she did so one of the gloves
she had taken off, when Mrs. Denison, with
unaccustomed agility, sprang up from her chair
and laid a heavy hand on the girl's arm.

"Where are you going?" she asked, peremptorily,
with much anxiety.

Olivia looked down at her face with a resolute
expression, which made her step-mother's
hands tingle to box her ears.

I am going to find Mr. Yernon Brander,
to tell him of the slanders that are being spread
about him and who spreads them, and I am
going to apologise most humbly for the treatment
he has received in this house this mong.


If Olivia had trusted herself for another
minute in Mrs. Denison's clutches, the last
rag of that good lady's self-restraint would
have been torn away, and she would have
recalled her old methods of school-room rule by
bringing her plump hand in sharp contact with
the girl's cheeks. But Olivia was too quick for
her. With an agile twist of her imprisoned
arm she freed herself, and shaking her head at
her father, who was crossing the room to follow
her, she left the room even more rapidly than
Vernon Brander had done.

Olivia flew along the road towards St.
Cuthbert's as if pursued. The thought that the
man who had done so much both to help and
protect her should have been exposed to the
vulgar insults of the tyrant of her father's household,
threw her into a frenzy of anger and
humiliation for which she found no balm. With
her indignation against Mrs. Meredith Brander,
on the other hand, there mingled an unacknowledged
consolation. She did not like that lady ;
she was also unconsciously jealous of her stronghold

upon her brother-in-law. Therefore the
discovery of Mrs. Brander's perfidy, which could
not fail to weaken that hold, had an element
which was not unwelcome. But to do the girl
justice, this selfish feeling was in very small
proportion to the passionate wish to make some
amends to him for the indignity he had just
suffered.

It had been a dull morning, and now the
rain was beginning to fall, and to envelop the
hills far away on the left with a haze which
by its density threatened something worse thana
light shower. In her impulsive eagerness
to start on her errand of consolation, she had not
thought of the mundane precaution of taking an
umbrella, and although she was now not too
much absorbed to regret the omission, she was
far too impatient to go back. As the rain
fell faster she began to run, and when she came
in sight of the ruinous church, standing still faraway
in the valley below her, partly hidden
by the gaunt and cheerless Vicarage, she had to
pause for breath, although by that time her

clothes were wet through. Through the veil of
rain she caught sight of a man who was making
his way towards St. Cuthbert's by a shorter
path, over the meadows and through the straggling
trees which at this point skirted the hill
on the south side of the valley. It must be
Vernon Brander, she felt sure, returning passionately
angry, or deeply humiliated, from his
unlucky visit to the farm.

Olivia wanted to overtake him before he
could reach his-house ; so, with her usual
impetuous rashness, she broke through the hedge
on her left, ran, tumbled, and slipped down the
hill, which was slippery with wet grass, scrambled
through the damp, dead underwood which grew
between the trees at the bottom, and, running
for the rest of the way, got into the lane leading
to the church, and, turning the last sharp corner
in a brilliant spurt, ran against the man she was
pursuing as he leaned against the churchyard

gate.

And it was not Vernon Brander after all !
The man had turned, hearing the rapid footsteps

behind him, and the change in the girl's
face, as she learnt her mistake, was far too
marked for him not to see easily that she was
disappointed.

I'm the wrong man, missed, I'm afraid,"
said he good humour ely, and in a manner perfectly
free from offence.

Olivia knew that this was the new tenant
of Eishton Church Cottage ; she had seen him
on the previous Sunday, not indeed inside the
church, of which he had confessed to the vicar
a frank abhorrence, but leaning over the low wall
of his garden to watch the worshippers, as they
left the building, with half-shut, critical eyes.

*' No," said she, apologetically ; " I thought
it was the vicar."

A curious look, partly of interest and partly,
as it seemed to her, of pity, came over his face.

' The vicar of this rat-run ? " he asked,
with a nod of his head in the direction of
the church.

The Vicar of St. Cuthbert's," answered the
girl with some dignity.

Her ideas on the subject of conversation
with strangers were strictly conventional ; but,
besides the universal interest and curiosity
which the mystery surrounding the new-comer
excited, she felt a sudden conviction that the
attraction which brought him to this remote
neighbourhood was not unconnected with Yernon
Brander.

The stranger gave a sort of grunt, and nodded
significantly.

I thought so'' said he.

Olivia turned away with a deep flush in her
cheeks, much vexed with herself for having given
the man an opening for a remark which seemed
highly impertinent. She was making boldly for
the Yicarage when she heard the stranger's
voice again. He had followed, and was walking
beside her.

Look here. Miss Denison," he began, ina
serious and respectful tone, " although I'm
a stranger to you, you are not one to me, for
I've studied you since I've been in this neighbourhood,
as I've studied all the rest of my

neighbours. And if I thought of them all as
I do of you, it would be better for some of
them."

Olivia turned suddenly towards him, and
stopped, impressed by his tone, and filled with
dread of what was coming.

Don't be frightened," he continued, ina
voice which, for the rough man, was almost
gentle. " You're a fine, high-spirited, generous
girl, and I want to be able to say to you that I
will never harm you nor yours."

You want to be able to say it 1 " she exclaimed,
in bewilderment.

'' Yes. As long as you remain Miss Denison
I can say it, but if you were to shut your ears to
everybody's warnings, and marry the Yicar of
St. Moulder-in-the-Hole here, I couldn't."

"Why, who are you?" cried the girl, ina
tremulous voice.

"Ned Mitchell, brother to Nellie Mitchell,
who was done away with here ten years ago.
And I'm here to make the man who murdered
her swing for it ! "


THE housekeeper's STORY.

Olivia Denison was by no means a nervous or
weak-minded girl. On learning that the man
who stood before her was the brother of Nellie
Mitchell, she did not scream or stagger back, or
give any outward sign of the shock she felt,
except to bite her lips, which had begun to
tremble and twitch, as she bowed her head
in acknowledgment of the information. But,
none the less, she was instantly possessed by a
much greater terror than if this unexpected
avenger had been a fierce-looking personage with
flashing eyes and a melodramatic roll in his
voice. She felt that there would be no softening
this hard-headed colonist, who took the punishment
of his sister's betrayer as " all in the day's
work," and announced his intention of getting
him hanged vdth the same dispassionate decision
with which he would have resolved on the sale
of a flock of sheep. And at the same time she

felt for the first time falls conscious that even,
the absolute knowledge of Vernon Brander's
guilt would not suffice to stifle her interest in
him.

Quietly as she took his sensational announcement,
Xed Mitchell was shrewd enough to know
that the young lady was greatly shocked by it,
and her bearing filled him with genuine admiration.
But his first attempt to soften the
blow was scarcely well worded.

Come, Miss Denison, there are as good fish
in the sea as ever came out of it, and a young
lady of your spirit is too good to waste half a
sigh on any man, let alone a parson. There's
nobody fit to mate with you in this played-out
old country ; what you want is a lad who can sita
buckjumper, or ride five hundred miles without
a wink of sleep except what he gets in thu
saddle. That's your sort."

Is it ? " said Olivia, tranquilly. " Perhaps

so. But I assure you, Mr. Mitchell, I can exist

a few more years without a mate at all, and that

it is no frantic desire to get married which

Snakes

me anxious to see one of my friends
cleared of a charge of which I believe him to be
innocent."

Well said. That's what a friend should
believe. But if your friend has quite a free
conscience about St. Cuthbert's churchyard and
anything that may ever have taken place in it,
can you suggest a reason for the gate's being
always locked? "

I suppose it is to prevent the sheep getting
in," said Olivia, regretting the feeble suggestion
the next moment.

'' Certainly the sheep can't pick a lock,
but, then, neither could they lift an ordinary
latch."

** Do you suppose that no churchyard is ever
kept locked unless a murder has been committed
in it ? "

"No. But I think it strange that since I
have been here, prowling about, let us say, not
only has the gate been mended where it had
grown weak in one of the hinges, but two
breaches in the wall, by which one could have

got into the churchyard without the help of the
gate, have been repaired."

Olivia glanced towards the place where she
had got in over the broken vall on a former
occasion. The gap had been stopped up, and
some of the earth underneath on the outside had
been carted away to make a forced entrance
more difficult.

'' Well," said she, her cheeks flushing, " and
is there anything singular in the fact of a vicar's
having his churchyard wall repaired ? "

Wlien the churchyard is so orderly and so
beautifully kept as this one ? " added Mr.
Mitchell, with a derisive laugh. " Yes, I think
there is something singular in it. And what
makes it to my mind more singular still is that
when I congratulated the Eeverend Yernon

o

Brander on these repairs he denied all knowledge
of them." 

"Then he certainly knew nothing about
them," said 01i\da, promptly.

Mr. Mitchell, for the first time, gave her a
glance such as he was accustomed to bestow on

the ordinary run of women  a glance full of
resigned and lenient contempt.

Well, you are thorough-going, at least'' he
said, at last, patronisingly. " But it is a
curiously lucky thing for the vicar, whose house
is the only place that commands a view of the
churchyard, mind you, that I can be seen
wandering about the place one day, and find
I can't get in the next."

Very likely his housekeeper saw you, as
you say, prowling about, and, considering your
manner suspicious, had the repairs made without
thinking it worth while to consult her master."

Not likely," said Mr. Mitchell, with a
shake of the head. " However, I'll not keep
you here in the rain trying to persuade an old
hand like me that black's white. Do you know
that your clothes are wet through ? "

This was perfectly true. Recalled now to
consciousness of physical discomfort, Olivia
shivered.

Yes, I must make haste home," she said.
Then, with a hopeless glance at his face, as if

she despaired of her words having any effect, she
added, '' You are too suspicions. You are so
shrewd that you think you can't make a mistake.
But for all your cleverness, my belief in the
friend I know and trust is just as likely to be
right as your belief to the contrary."

Well, well, I hope it may be. Don't think
I have any ill feeling towards this Vernon
Brander as a man; it is the betrayer of my
sister that I'm after, and if Vernon Brander
isn't the guilty party, why, he'll have nothing
to fear from me. Good afternoon, Miss
Denison."

Mr. Mitchell raised his hat, with a shrewd
and not unkindly smile into the girl's beautiful,
agitated face, turned on his heel, and began to
make his way, with his usual stolid and leisurely
manner, up the hill towards the high road.

Left to herder, Olivia, who was by this time
too thoroughly drenched to trouble herself about
a few minutes more or less in the rain, debated
what she should do. The heat of the impulse
which made her dash out of doors on learning

the insult to Yernon had now departed, and
some of Mr. Mitchell's words had hurt her
maidenly modesty to the extent of making her
shy of visiting the clergyman at his house. On
the other hand, she had now, in the menaces of
the colonist, another reason for putting him on
his guard. When Mr. Mitchell had disappeared
from her sight at the first bend of the lane, she
began to follow in the same direction slowly, her
mind not yet being made up. An unexpected
incident decided her.

Glancing furtively at the cheerless windows
of the gaunt stone house, Olivia saw, at one of
them, the figure of an old woman in a black
dress and widow's cap, who watched the girl
with evident interest, and at last opened the
front door and began making signs to her.
Olivia stopped. The signs were plainly an
invitation to come in.

Won't you step inside a minute, out of the
rain ? Come in, come in ; there's nobody about
but me."

This decided Olivia, who recognised the

speaker as Vernon's housekeeper, whom she had
seen at Bishton church on Sundays. So she
walked up the stone-paved path, and thanking
the old woman for the proffered shelter, followed
her.

*' I think you'd better come into my room,
Miss, though it's really only the back kitchen,"
said the housekeeper. " But Mr. Brander being
out to-day, lunching up at the Hall Farm, as
you know, Miss, there's no fire in his room."

Olivia assenting gratefully, the old woman
led her past the open door of a comfortless and
dingy room on the left, which might have been
either dining-room or study, past a second door
on the same side, which was closed, to a small
apartment at the back, where a bright fire, a cat
on the hearth rug, a bird in its cage, and a
cushioned rocking-chair, gave a look of comfort
which was a welcome relief to the cheerless
aspect of the rest of the house. An open door
led into the kitchen, and gave a pleasant glimpse
of fire-light shining on well-polished pots and
pans.

The housekeeper broke into ejaculations
of alarm as she touched the girl's wet garments.


Bless me ! you're soaked to the skin ! '' she
cried, beginning instantly to divest Olivia of her
outer garments with a vigorous hand. " Come
upstairs with me. Yes, you must ; it would be
manslaughter on my part to let you stay in
those clothes. I believe you've caught a fever
already."

Fatigue, excitement, cold, and wet had done
their work on Olivia, who began to look and to
feel ill. She resisted for a few moments the
housekeeper's well-meant endeavours to drag her
to the door, but yielded at last, and suffered
herself to be taken upstairs, and arrayed from
head to foot in garments belonging to her
hostess which, if neither well-fitting nor fashionable,
were at least dry. Mrs. Warmington 
for that, she informed Olivia, was her name 
assured the girl that she would have plenty of
time to have her outer garments dried, and to
get away home before Mr. Brander returned, as

it was his day for visiting an outlying part of
his straggling parish.

And," she said, " he will no doubt go
straight on from the Hall Farm after luncheon,
and won't be back here until tea-time."

Without having had anything to eat,"
thought poor Olivia.

She let herself be led downstairs again,
noting, as she did so, that no visible corner of
the house, except such parts of it as came within
the housekeeper's special province, was one whit
more comfortable or homehke than the bare
hall. A pang of acute pity for the lonely man
pierced her heart as she decided that, whatever
sin he might earlier in life have been guilty of,
no expiation could be more complete than his
dreary life in this desolate house, with only an
old woman for companion. And Mrs. Warmington
did not strike her as the most devoted
servant, or the most sympathetic personality, in
the world. She had " seen better days," evidently
; but although she did not flaunt the fact
unduly, it perhaps gave her a little additional

aggressiveness of manner, so that, in spite of her
kindness, Olivia felt that one must he hard np
for companionship to seek Mrs. Warmington's
society. The girl was indeed struck hy the
difference between the warm kindliness the old
woman showed to herself and the rather off-hand
manner in which she alluded to her employer.
She began to puzzle her head as to the reason of
this, and grew very anxious to find out in what
esteem the clergyman was held hy his solitary
dependent. After a little conversation by the
fireside, during which the warmth came gradually
hack to her shivering limbs, she put out a feeler
in this direction 

It's a very lonely life that you and Mr.
Brander lead up here," she said, looking into the
fire, and hoping that she did not betray in which
of the two lives she took the greater interest.

You may well say lonely. It's a godsend
to see a human creature about. I could have
blessed the rain to-day for bringing you here."

I suppose it's even worse for you than for
Mr. Brander, because he has his parish duties ? "

Well, I'm of a more contented turn of mind
than he," said Mrs. Warmington, with the same
coolness that she had previously shown on the
subject of her master. " But then, to be sure,
perhaps I've a better conscience."

There was silence for some minutes. Mrs.
Warmington gave the impression of being ready
to be questioned, but Olivia was shy of taking
advantage of the fact. The housekeeper glanced
at her from time to time, as if hoping for some
comment on her words. At last, as none came,
she looked her visitor full in the face, and
said 

I see you know the story. Every one
does, more or less ; though there are not many
who know the rights of it as well as I do."

Olivia's heart seemed to stand still.

But you don't think him guilty ? " burst
from her lips, in a tone which expressed more
anxiety than she guessed. " You know him,
perhaps, better than anybody ; you know that
he isn't capable of anything so cruel, so base."

Mrs. Warmington pursed up. her withered

lips in a judicial manner, poked the fire, and put
on a fresh supply of coal, all with an air of
being the chosen keeper of some great mystery.
Olivia watched her, but without asking anymore
questions ; she felt heart-sick, miserable.
Other people might guess ; this old woman probably
knew. At last the housekeeper solemnly
broke silence.

It's hardly a tale for a young lady's ears ;
perhaps it almost seems like a breach of confidence
on my part to touch upon my employer's
secrets at all. But he has never made a confidante
of me, and if there's any one in the world
who might use the knowledge I possess to
Mr. Brander's disadvantage, I know it is not
you."

The young girl felt a shame-faced flush
rising in her cheeks. The woman spoke in a
significant tone, implying that the depth of the
interest Olivia took in her master was not unknown
to her. The girl turned her head a
little away, and stared at the fire with statuesque
stillness while her companion continued 

To begin A\'itli, I may tell you that the
Branders are distant relations of mine. It does
not make me love them the more, but it will
prove to you that I have no interest in making
them out to be worse than they are."

01i\aa assented with a slight bend of the
head.

"I don't deny that I have noticed the
interest you take in my master, and as you are
an inexperienced young girl, with some warmhearted,
and perhaps rather Quixotic, notions, I
think it right to put you in possession of the
facts of this business, as I know them."

Olivia glanced at the woman, and saw that,
in spite of the dry hardness of her manner, there
was a kindly look in her eyes. Indeed, Mrs.
Warmington, whose heart was a little parched
towards the world in general, had taken a fancy
to the bright-checked, handsome girl.

I suppose you know," she went on, " that
the Branders pride themselves upon being what
is called a * good ' family. You will also know
that in all ' good ' families there is generally

more than one ' bad lot.' Although I am a
connection of theirs, I must confess that there
has been quite an exceptional number among the
Branders. And, awkwardly enough, it happens
that the family interest lies chiefly in the
Church. The Branders have been clergymen
for generations, generally with little credit to
themselves. Here and there has been an exception,
but never more than one in a generation;
the exception in our time is Meredith.
His two brothers, Vernon and one who is now
in China, showed from the very first how unfit
they were for their calling. I don't blame them
much ; I don't praise Meredith much ; their
temperaments are different, and it can scarcely
be called their fault that only one of the three is
a round peg in a round hole. Well, you know
that both my master and his brother, Meredith,
fixed their choice on the same lady, and that
Meredith married her. After that, Yernon, who
was no particular credit to his cloth before, grew
wilder than ever. It was not long before his
constant visits to the Hall Farm became the

talk of the village; for Nellie Mitchell hadn't
the best name in the world. Before long it was
rumoured about that the girl had been seen, late
in the evening, in the neighbourhood of St.
Cuthbert's.''

"Did you live here then?" abruptly asked
OKvia, who had been sitting in an attitude of
straining attention, with close-shut lips and
heaving breast.

*' I had been here six weeks when  when the
end came. Tongues had been going faster than
ever for the last week or two, and, of course,
some of the talk had reached my ears. I knew,
from little things I had seen  a portrait, a glove,
slight changes in his manner when speaking of
her  that my master had not yet got over his
fancy for Mrs. Brander, married though she was.
Then I heard whispers of Nellie Mitchell's
jealousy : how she flaunted past the vicar's wife
in the churchyard on Sunday with a swing in-her
walk and a toss of her head which were
almost insults ; of letters which were left in a
wood close by, some of which fell into strange
h

hands. I was shocked by these reports, but I
looked upon them as partly gossip, and considered
that, in any case, they were no business of mine.
One evening in August I was standing at the
window of the front room, watching the sunset,
when I saw Nellie Mitchell coming down the
lane past the house. Something in the girl's
appearance and manner struck me as it had never
done before. It was not the first time that I
had seen her come this way ; but on all previous
occasions it had been after dark that I had seen
a figure which I believed to be hers slinking past
hurriedly, as if anxious to escape notice. Now
the girl walked boldly  one would have said
defiantly  with a flushed face, and an expression
of reckless resolution. She carried in her hand
a small white packet, and, as she came opposite
the house, she stopped, and, turning so as to face
the gate, deliberately untied the string or ribbon
which held her small parcel together, and counted
the letters of which it consisted. One, two,
three, four, five, six, seven. I could see her red
lips move as she counted them out to herself, and

then slowly tied them up again with one angry
and determined look up at the windows of this
house from her bold black eves. She did not seeme,
but it was evident that if a hundred people
had been staring at her out of these empty
shutterless windows it would have been all the
same to her. I was shocked, horror-stricken.
For the first time the full meaning of all the
ugly rumours I had heard became plain to me :
my master had been this woman's lover ! "

Olivia shivered at the woman's words, which
seemed doubly shocking from the matter-of-fact,
somewhat hard tone in which they were spoken.

As the evening went on I grew more and
more restless and uneasy. Certain noises I
had heard from time to time in the night, which
I had put down to the rats, came back to my
mind. It now seemed to me that they might
have been due to another cause. They had
come from one of the front unused rooms. If
thoughts of evil now came into my mind, how
could I be blamed ? My master was away, doing
his rounds in the parish ; he had told me he
h2

should not be back till late. All the rest of the
evening I watched from the window, but I did
not see the girl return. The thought came into
my mind to go out, and try to find out where
she had gone : whether she was really, as the
villagers' hints suggested, waiting for some one
in the churchyard. But I was afraid ; I had no
mind to interfere in other people's affairs ; it has
always been my custom not to do so. For a
young girl like you I am ready to break my rule,
but not for such as Nellie Mitchell."

And Mrs. Warmington's lips closed pharisaically.


Nine o'clock came, ten o'clock, half-past ten;
it was quite dark. Then, as I walking up and
down with an attack of what I call the ' fidgets,'
there came through the open windows a scream
so shrill, so horrible, that I staggered into the
nearest chair as if a blow from a strong man's
arm had Hung me there. ' Nellie Mitchell !
Nellie Mitchell ! ' I felt myself saying hoarsely.
Then I think I fainted, for what I remember
next was to find myself hanging over the chair

with my head on Mr. Vernon's writing-table. I
got Tip, at first scarcely knowing what it was that
had startled me. I was in utter darkness ; in my
first spasm of horror I had thrown down the
lamp. As I groped about to find a match, my
fingers trembling so much that they were clumsy
and almost powerless, I heard a footstep outside
the door. It was my master, Vernon Brander !

'' I stopped in my search, and drew back instinctively,
as I heard him fumbling at the
handle of the room door. It seemed such a longtime
before he came in that the whole of this
ugly story  the villagers' gossip, the sight I had
seen, and the sound I had heard that evening 
all seemed to pass quite slowly through my mind
as I stood there waiting for him to come in. At
last the door opened slowly, and my master stood
in the room with me. I heard his breath coming
in guttural gasps ; I heard the table creak and
the objects on it rattle as he came forward and
leaned upon it. I almost shrieked, middle-aged,
matter-of-fact woman that I was, when he suddenly
whispered in a hoarse voice  

' Who's that ? '

I summoned self-command enough to
answer, pretty steadily 

' ' It's I, sir.'

*' He got up from the table, and turned towards
the door; but an impulse seized me to
learn what I could then. I remembered, with a
sort of inspiration, where the matches were, found
them, and struck a light. I was just in time to
see my master's hands as he opened the door:
they were stained with blood !

' What have you done ? You have killed
her ! ' I hissed out close to him.

' Before Heaven I have not ! ' he answered
huskily ; but his teeth were chattering, and his
eyes were glassy and fixed.

Then, covering his face with his hands
with a groan, he turned and staggered out of
the room. As he did so he dropped something,
which I picked up and examined without
scruple. I admit that this was high-handed,
but when you are almost a witness to a foul
action, you make new laws for yourself on the

spur of the moment. By this time I had quite
recovered myself. I lit a candle, and read every
word of the letters which Nellie Mitchell had
flourished before my face that evening. There
were no names used. The gentleman had insisted
upon caution, as the girl over and over
again complained. For these letters were hers,
and as each successive one was full of more and
more bitter reproaches against her lover, I guessed
that it was the return of her letters which had at
last goaded the girl to desperation. Her jealousy
of Mrs. Brander was expressed on every page, and
the last contained a threat of exposure. It was
evident that, whatever the girl's character might
have been, she was bitterly in earnest over this
passion. In spite of myself, the burning words,
guilty though they were, filled me with a kind
of pity, increased by the awful suspicion which
now possessed me. I felt the hot tears fall
upon the papers in my hands, and I was so
absorbed in my reading that I did not hear my
master come into the room a Grain, for the door
had been left open. When at last I heard his

tread close behind me I started, but did not attempt
to hide how I was engaged. He did not
seem startled to see the letters in my hands, but
taking them from me, he read them right
through, one by one, and then placed them in
his desk. His face was as white as that of a
dead man, and the hands he had just washed
were livid round the nails. When he had shut
his desk he turned very calmly to me and said 

* You will leave me tomorrow, of course ;
but you had better not go very far, as there will
be an inquiry  an inquest; all sorts of things
and your evidence will be important  against
me.'

Those last two words decided me. My life
was my own. This man was my own kin. I
answered, as calmly as he had spoken to me 

* You are my master, sir, and of my own
blood. I shall stay with you as long as you
please to keep me. If your conscience is bad,
I shall be an everlasting prick to it ; if it is
clear, as I pray Heaven, you will have at least
one friend when you most want one.' "

Olivia started up all on fire.

That was good of you !  that was noble of
you ! " she cried, in a trembling voice.

"Not at all. It is just the sort of thing a
woman likes to do. A little cheap Quixotism 
that is all, and I secured myself a home for life,
you see. I was no young girl that I should be
afraid of him''

It was impossible to tell whether it was the
cynicism or the kindliness which predominated
in Mrs. Warmington's motives, or whether they
were there in equal proportions. As Olivia
stared wonderingly into the withered and somewhat
inexpressive face, the housekeeper rose
somewhat abruptly from her seat.

"That is Mr. Brander's step!" she exclaimed
as she turned to the door. " If you stay here,
you will be able to slip out presently without his
seeing you."

With these words, leaving Olivia no time
to protest, or even answer her, the housekeeper
left the room, closing the door behind
her.

A CHEERLESS HOME.

Olivia's first thought, as the door closed on
Mrs. Warmington, was to follow her out and
make a dash for freedom. But as she started
up with this impulse, a sliding movement on
the part of the garments she wore reminded her
that she was not in walking trim ; and a glance
at the gilt-framed but mildewy glass which
adorned the housekeeper's mantelpiece showed
her such a comical figure that the instincts of
maidenly coquetry would never have allowed her
to risk a meeting with Yernon Brander in that
odd disguise.

Mrs. Warmington's figure was of the 
sort  long in the body and short
in the limbs. Being a lady of frugal bent and
careful habits, she wore her dresses for so long
a time that they acquired enough of the shape
and character of the owner to impart the same

characteristics to any subsequent wearer. Therefore,
Olivia's glance in the mirror showed her a
woman in dark-brown stuff of slipshod fit, with
a substantial square waist, and baggy sleeves
too short in the wrist. After one despairing
look out of the window at the rain, which went
on falling in torrents, she sat down again disconsolately
to listen and wait for her hostess's
return.

Mrs. Warmington had not met her master
on her way upstairs, for Olivia had heard him
go into the front room before the housekeeper
left her : that she might be equally lucky on
her way down was the girl's inward prayer. For
there were ominous sounds in the house suggesting
that Mr. Brander was not minded to sit
down quietly to the writing of a sermon or the
reading of a good book, as one had a clear right
to expect of a clergyman. Poor Olivia, sitting
upright as a ramrod, with a scared expression of
face, heard him come out of the dining-room
into the hall. By the noise he made at the hat
and coat stand, she guessed that he was changing

his wet coat for a dry one. That business over,
he ought plainly to have returned to his room :
so it seemed to Olivia. But instead of that, he
remained fumbling at the stand until the listening
girl remembered, with a spasm of terror,
that she had left there to dry, by the housekeeper's
directions, her little hand-bag. Perhaps
Mr. Brander would pass it over, taking it for
granted that the flimsy little feminine thing
belonged to Mrs. Warmington. No woman
would have thought so ; but, of course, men are
not observant. Her worst fear was that he
would remain there, not making enough noise
to put the housekeeper on her guard, until that
lady should come sailing down the stairs laden
with a hat and cloak which evidently did not
belong to her. The girl scarcely dared to draw
breath in her intense anxiety. To be caught
sneaking into a gentleman's house in his absence,
warming yourself at his fire, and even  as she
discovered to her dismay on examining her
feet  making free with his slippers, is an awkward
situation at any time. But when you

have just been told the secret of his life, and
when your whole soul is warring about him,
mercy struggling with horror, and conviction
with doubt, the dilemma becomes well-nigh
tragic.

Presently Olivia heard him drop some object,
and the little crash it made caused her to shiver
and almost to cry out. Then he began to cross
the uncarpeted hall with very slow steps. Olivia
strained her ears and held her breath. He was
coming towards the room she was in. Had he
guessed the presence of an intruder, or was he
only coming with the prosaic intention of ordering
something to eat ? The girl remembered
with remorse how he had been cheated out of
his luncheon. But what should she do ? Already
she heard him calling, in a low and, as she
fancied, tired voice, " Mrs. Warmington ! "
There was no time to escape by way of the
kitchen  no corner of the room where she could
hide herself. As she stood up to give one last
hopeless look round, she again caught sight of
her disguised figure in the glass. Seized by a

happy thought, she snatched up from the top of
one of the side cupboards, that filled the space
between the fireplace and the walls, a small
woollen shawl of rusty black, which Mrs.
Warmington used to wrap round her head
when she indulged in an afternoon doze. Olivia
now blessed her fervently for this information.
She had just time to wrap it round her head,
to throw herself back in the rocking-chair with
her head turned away from the door, to cross
her legs as Mrs. Warmington did, to fold her
arms, and hide her hands in the folds of the
baggy sleeves, when the door opened softly, and
Mr. Brander put his head inside.

Mrs. Warmington ! " he called, very
gently.

No answer, of course.

Are you asleep ? " more gently still.

His housekeeper's afternoon doze was a very
common occurrence apparently, for he uttered a
little petulant sound, and disappeared into the
kitchen. In the dusk of a wet afternoon the
girl's ruse had succeeded perfectly. But the

obscurity which had favoured her was not equally
kind to him, for Olivia heard much chinking of
china and clattering of plate before he re-entered
the room. Instead of going through to his own
domain, however, he stood still between the fireplace
and the door, and Olivia, not daring to
look, guessed that he was eating. Trembling as
she was with the fear of discovery, it seemed to
her a long time before she heard him take up
the poker and proceed very noiselessly to break
the red-hot coals. She seized the opportunity
to turn her head a little, and to steal a
frightened glance at him through her eyelashes.
He had on the shabbiest of threadbare and ragged
house coats, and was hungrily eating bread and
cheese and a piece of dry and crumbling cake.
When he had built up the fire to please him, he
dragged an old church hassock from under the
table, and seating himself on it, drew as near to
the grate as possible, and went on with his improvised
meal.

He was so close to Olivia that she could
detect the coal smell which constant contact

with his mining parishioners had imparted to
his old clothes ; so close that she felt that he
was cold as well as hungry ; so close that his
hair brushed Mrs. Warmington's brown stuff
gown as he bent forward, with his elbows on his
knees, and looked into the fire.

And as they sat thus, in the darkening twilight,
side by side, he unconscious of her presence,
she grew less afraid that he should
discover it, altogether less anxious for the
safety of her disguise. Her thoughts turned
instead to consideration of his loneliness. What
a cheerless existence was implied in this creeping
up to the side of a rather cold and cross-grained
old woman for warmth and companionship ! The
close contact seemed to help Olivia to feel her
way into the mind of the solitary man. She
pictured him innocent, labouring under a charge
which for some ud accountable reason he was
unable to refute ; she pictured him guilty, torn
with remorse, and working out aweary expiation.
In the latter case, she began to feel, even more
strongly than before her interview with Mrs.



Warmington, that her horror of the deed was
swallowed up in compassion for the doer. When
he had finished his very frugal dinner, he sat so
still that she was able to open her eyes and so
gain all the, information concerning the state of
his mind which a careful study of the back of
his head could impart. He was dejected, weary,
unhappy ; probably smarting still, so she told
herself, from the pain her step-mother's treatment
had caused him. Presently he rested his
head on his left hand, and so came nearer still
to her. She could feel that she was trembling
from the force of an aching pity, and that her
hands seemed to tingle with the wish to lie with
consoling touch on his bent head. She had
forgotten Mrs. Warmington and the dry clothes
forgotten to wonder how she was going to
get out of the house and home again without
discovering herself to Mr. Brander. She soon
discovered, however, that her feelings were more
acute than those of the object of her pity ; for
his head tilted slowly further and further in her
direction until at last it rested on her knee. Mr.

Brander, who, after a fierce battle with certain
very clerical feelings, had tried to subdue the
mind to the flesh by a long stretch over the
hills, and succeeded in tiring himself out.

He was fast asleep.

And if he had but known it, he might have
had sweeter dreams that he was used to. For
the resting-place he had found was the creature
who cared most about him in the world.

Olivia had an inkling of this, and it made
the touch of her hand almost motherly as she
bent down and held it very, very gently just
near enough to feel his hair against her fingers.
Only thirty-four or thereabouts, and his hair so
grey ! She could dare now, as he slept, to bend
right down, and to see by the firelight how
thickly the white threads grew among the dark
behind his ears and near the temples. So curly
his hair was, she noticed; quite soft, too, and
silky, like a child's ; quite out of keeping with
the worn, lined face, that looked so sad and so
old as the dancing flames threw deep shadows
upon it. And her fingers moved involuntarily

through the wavy mass, as she thought, as
women will, that there had been a time, long
ago, when he lay a helpless child, depending on
the kindness of a woman. And she tried to
fancy what that poor mother would have felt if
she had known what evil rumours would some
day darken the name of her curly-haired boy.
Olivia was by nature more impulsive and passionate
than sentimental ; therefore these unaccustomed
feelings and fancies, instead of finding
vent in a gentle sigh, made her breast heave
and her eyes fill, until a broken whisper slipped
through her trembling lips 

Poor mother  poor son ! "

She was ashamed of her foolishness the next
moment, and raised her head quickly with a
start and a hot, tingling blush, anxious to jump
up and run away, though still not daring to
move. She took out her pocket handkerchief
very carefully, dabbed it against her wet eyes
with much fierceness, and then gave another
glance, not at all sentimental this time, at the
face against her knee. Horror and confusion !
i 2

Was he asleep at all ? The expression of his
face had quite changed, and there was a
wretched tear  her tear!  on his forehead.
What should she do? Remove that tear, certainly.
Tor she felt that it would leave a huge
stain, unmistakable as ink. Yery nervously
she attempted to dry it with her handkerchief ;
but the moment the cambric touched his face
Mr. Brander raised his head and prevented
her.

"Don't ! " he said, huskily. " Why should
you ? What is there to be ashamed of in your
kindness to me ? Do I get too much from anybody?"


Olivia did not answer. She felt as if a new
acquaintance had suddenly been sprung upon
her. This mood was so different from any
she had seen Mr. Brander in before. The half-cynical
self-reliance, the bright, somewhat bitter
humour had disappeared, and given place to a
humility so touching, so gentle, that she felt
constrained to remain where she was rather than
risk hurting his feelings by rising abruptly.

But she could not answer his questions, and so
she sat silently, with her head bent down and
turned a little away, while he resumed the position
he had first taken, with his arms on his
knees, looking into the fire. After a few
moments, during which the girl had time to
wonder that she felt, under these rather awkward
circumstances, so much at her ease, she broke
the silence, in a low, hesitating voice.

Mr. Brander," she began, '' I should like
to say something to you about  about this
morning  about Mrs. Denison."

Her painfully apologetic tone made him turn
his head at once, with a smile.

You may say something to me  in fact
anything  upon any other subject than those
two," he answered, in his usual kindly tone.
Say something to me about this afternoon and
about yourself. Let this morning, and Mrs.
Denison, be buried. Mind, I say this in no
unchristian spirit."

"You are very good," said Olivia, glancing
at him timidly and gratefully.

Do you mean that ? " he asked, inquisitively.
" You have heard a good deal to the
contrary, you know."

Well, but is all that true ? " she burst out,
boldly. *' Now, you have brought that question
upon yourself before, and now you deliberately
bring it upon yourself again. Why don't you
satisfy me by a straightforward answer ? I do
deserve it ; for I always take your part, to other
people and to myself too."

Do you ? " he asked, so eagerly, with such
a flash of pleasure over his face that Olivia felt
abashed again. Then he paused, and the light
had gone quite out of his face before he went
on : " You won't be satisfied then with the consciousness
that you are a poor beggar's solitary
champion ? "

I won't be satisfied with that if I can get
you to tell me any more," she answered, simply.
*' I don't pretend that I'm not anxious to know
more ; but it is not out of curiosity to learn
other people's affairs, but because there really
must be something peculiarly interesting about

a secret which causes your own relations to speak
ill of you."

Olivia had suddenly made up her mind for a
bold stroke. It cannot be denied that there was
a little malice in her heart ; but it was a small
matter compared with her real anxiety to put
him on his guard against one whom she considered
a treacherous friend.

*' My relations !'* he echoed, with a look of
such bewilderment and incredulity that she
began to think he would not believe her.

Isn't a sister-in-law a kind of relation ? "
asked Olivia, rather unsteadily, after a pause.

Mr. Brander's expression changed to one of
pain and fear; so that Olivia watched him in
terror, not daring to go on. He looked at her
without answering, and then, as she remained
silent and fearful, he got up and walked to the
other side of the little room, where, as her face
was turned towards the fireplace, she could not
see him ; but she knew, without the aid of her
eyes, that he was much agitated ; and when he
came back and, standing by her chair, put his

hand gently on her shoulder and spoke to her
with calmness which might have passed for unconcern,
she was not deceived by it.

And what ill does my sister-in-law say of
me ? '' he asked.

She told my stepmother an old story, and
said you were not a proper acquaintance for 
young girls."

*' Oh, she said that, did she ? " returned Mr.
grander, in a measured voice. Then he said,
abruptly, after a silence, " You are sure of
this?"

Quite sure**

Then it appeared to the girl that he stood
beside her without a word for a very long time.
For the fire seemed to die down, and the murky
light outside to fade perceptibly, before he even
changed his attitude. At last she found courage
to look up timidly into his face, and saw that
his eyes were staring towards the window with
the blind look of a seer whose vision is only
keen for the fancies and phantoms in his own
mind. And Mr. Brander's fancies must have

been of the gloomiest kind, for his face startled
the girl into uttering a little exclamation, which
roused him from his abstraction, and woke him
to the fact that his hand had been lying all this
time on her shoulder.

I beg your pardon," he muttered, as he
withdrew it as hastily as if it had been red-hot
iron.

The blood rushed . to Olivia's face. The
touch of Mr. Brander's hand had not offended
her ; the knowledge that it had been unconscious
did. And a most acute pang shot through her
heart as she reared that it was because his
mind was full of another woman's treatment that
he was oblivious of her. She was jealous. In
such an impulsive, energetic girl as she was,
vivid feeling found vent in hasty action. Rising
from her chair, and quite forgetting that her odd
costume made dignity impossible, she said, very
coldly, that she must go home now ; her father
would be anxious about her, and the rain was
less violent. Even as she spoke the wind
dashed a clattering shower against the window in

disproof of her words. She did not notice it herself
; neither, apparently, did her host. For he
opened the door for her at once without any
semblance of a wish to detain her, and without
seeming to remark her singular apparel.

Olivia darted out of the room and up the
stairs in a tempest of excited feelings, which
found vent in an outburst of indignation against
Mrs. Warmington for leaving her so long alone
with Mr. Brander. The housekeeper met her at
the top of the stairs, looking herself pale and
frightened.

Why didn't you come down ? " asked
Olivia, impatiently.

The old woman glanced nervously down into
the hall, and answered in a soothing tone of
apology

I did not dare. Miss Denison. I did not
want my employer to find me talking to you.
He would have guessed what we were talking
about. We get so sharp, we people who live
much alone, and he would never have forgiven
me. Ever since I heard him go into the room

where you were I have been walking up and
down the landing in a fever. You did not
tell him what we had been talking about, did
you?"

"No," answered 01i\da. ''He didn't ask
me."

Thank goodness ! " said the housekeeper
with such a depth of relief that the girl's
curiosity was roused.

Why should you mind so much ? " she
asked. " He seems quite used to having his
affairs discussed, and takes it for granted that
people should think the worst of him."

This thought moved her as she spoke, and
caused her voice to tremble sympathetically.
The housekeeper examined her face narrowly as
she answered, with great discretion 

He wouldn't have minded about any one
else, Miss Denison ; but it's different with you."

*' Different  with me ! " echoed the girl,
very softly.

Without more words, Mrs. Warmington,
after once more listening and glancing down

into the hall to assure herself that they were not
likely to be disturbed, crossed the landing on
tiptoe, and beckoned Olivia to follow her. Then
throwing open the door of one of the front bedrooms
without noise, she said 

This is Mr. Brander's room. Do you see
by his bedside a set of hanging shelves on the
wall?"

*' Yes."

And a box in the middle of the bottom
shelf?"

As she spoke the housekeeper was crossing
the room. Taking down the box, she returned
to the door with it, and, raising the lid, showed
Olivia the tray of an old-fashioned workbox with
well-worn fittings.

It was his mother's, I believe," she
whispered. Then, as the girl drew back,
shocked at having been inveigled into prying
among Mr. Brander's treasures, she went on 
Have you ever seen this ? " And lifting out
the tray of the workbox, she thrust under
Olivia's reluctant but astonished eyes an

india rubber golosh, which Miss Denison instantly
recognised as one she had lost on her way back
from the Vicarage on the evening of her arrival
at Eishton.

With a little cry of astonishment and annoyance,
Olivia put out a hasty hand to recover
her lost property. But Mrs. Warmington prevented
her, shutting the box hastily, and restoring
it to its place.

I can't take, or allow you to take, anything
out of my employer's boxes in his absence," she
said, drily.

But it's mine ; it's of no use to him, and I
want it ! "

You will have to do without it, unless you
care to go and fetch it yourself. But I think,
on second thoughts, you will be satisfied that
enough honour has been paid to your old shoe."

Olivia blushed, and moved her shoulders
with vexation.

It was such a huge thing ! " she exclaimed
impatiently. " They were always sizes and
sizes too big for me."

Mrs. Warmington's thin lips relaxed into a
smile.

Oh ! '* she said ; " perhaps you only wish
to put a smaller one in its place."

Olivia felt that she had, as her brothers
would have termed it, " given herself away,"
and she was glad to let the subject drop.
Following her conductress into her bedroom,
she put on her own, now dry, clothes, in silence
and much meekness, thanked her in a subdued
voice for her hospitality, and begged, as a final
grace, the loan of an umbrella.

It won't be necessary. Mr. Brander will
see you home."

Oh, no, indeed," broke out Olivia, hastily.
I want to slip out of the house quietly without
his seeing me again."

**Do you really want that?" asked the old
woman, with a searching look which set the
younger blushing. " Because, if so, I can take
you down this way by the back staircase. It is
never used, but "

Then, perhaps, the stairs will creak,"

intermitted Olivia, and without more delay
she made, softly indeed but deliberately, for
the front staircase.

"I can't thank you enough for your kindness,"
she whispered, when they both stood in the hall.

Mrs. Warmington shook her head with a
drily amused smile.

I had a motive," she said. " I am too
fond of my own comfort to put myself out of
the way without one."

A motive ? " echoed Olivia.

Yes. I wanted to know you better, and I
wanted you to know Mr. Brander better. Now
nobody can deceive you about him, and nobody
can deceive me about you."

"Why, who would try? " asked Olivia.

Nobody, perhaps. Good-bye."

With one glance towards the open door of
the front room, from which they both heard the
sounds of a man's tread, the housekeeper shook
her guest's hand, and, abruptly leaving her, disappeared
into her own domain at the back of
the house.

Olivia, who was highly offended at this discovery
that she had been " managed " and made
the victim of a little trick, walked to the front
door with her head held high, and a firm intention
of not even glancing in the direction of the
study. But a sound inside the room, as she
passed the door, broke her resolution, and she
gave a swift glance that way. The look revealed
Mr. Brander standing beside the black, empty
fireplace. That was all. He saw her, and saw
the proud turn of her head as she instantly
averted her eyes. Then he heard the latch of
the front door as her hands fumbled with it ; he
heard the door open, and shut again immediately,
very softly. The next moment there was a
hesitating step back across the hall, and the
young girl's face was looking into the dingy
room.

Please will you open the door for me, Mr.
Brander ? I  I don't quite understand the
lock."

He came at once, and did the little service
without a word. She looked out; it was still

raining persistently, the heavy downpour having
been succeeded by a fine drizzle.

It hasn't left off yet' she said, timidly.

"No."

They both stood still, looking out into the
gathering darkness.

Shall I lend you an umbrella ? "

Oh, if you would, I should be so glad ; I
will be sure to bring  send it back."

He brought an umbrella from the stand ; and
opened it thoughtfully.

If I lend you this one  it is the best, the
lightest ; the one I use when there's a bishop
about  I shall want it again early tomorrow
morning  "

I'll be sure to"

Very early," he continued, without heeding
her.

Then let me have the old one."

It's full of holes. Besides, one of the ribs
is broken."

Oh, never mind. I can quite well get back
without one at all."

It might be managed," suggested Yernon,
guiltily, when he had produced and examined
carefully the second-best umbrella, which proved
to be only a little better than its reputation.
'' If I were to walk part of the way back with
you, it might clear up, and you might be able
to get home without one ; and I could bring it
back, you see."

"But I don't like to trouble  I'm always
imposing "  murmured Olivia.

However, the half permission had been
enough for Mr. Brander, who was by this time
slipping into his rough overcoat with the alacrity
of the British workman at the sound of the first
stroke of six.

Worse conditions for a pleasant walk through
the fields and lanes can scarcely be imagined thana
March evening after a pouring weet day, a fine
rain falling, the ground ankle-deep in mud, and
the darkness already so thick that an occasional
slip into a puddle was unavoidable. They had to
walk in most uneven, jolting fashion to find a
path at all through the steepest part of the lane.

Sometimes Olivia had to take Mr. Brander's arm
to keep lier footing at all, and once he had to
help her to jump over a miniature torrent. They
scarcely talked at aU, but a warm sense of human
sympathy and mutual help grew so strong
between them that when they came to a particularly
ugly quagmire their eyes would meet
with a smile and a nod, and they would go on
again very happily. At last, when they got to
the top of the hi, and both instinctively stopped
for breath at the same moment, Olivia looked
up and said, shyly and simply 

Did you know it was I  all the time? "

'' I knew it was you when I felt  something
on my face. I was asleep, and it woke
me.

I'm so sorry," murmured she.

'don't apologise. You may cry over me
just as much as you like."

She laughed a little, and then they went on

again, but without exchanging any more looks,

until they came suddenly, without having realised

that they were so near, to the bottom of the

i2

Vicarage hill. He glanced up it, and Olivia
caught the expression of his eyes.

*' You are not going there  to the Vicarage? "
she burst out, impulsively.

Yes, I am," he answered, with a dogged
look of anger and scorn on his face.

The girl, drawing a long, sobbing breath,
retreated a step without speaking.

Vernon stopped and looked into her face
almost with the boldness of a lover.

Why not ? " he asked, in a voice little
above a whisper.

*why not, indeed, Mr. Brander?" she said,
coldly, but without succeeding in hiding a
break in her voice : " if the friends you can't
trust are of more value than those you
can."

"It is not a question of that, Miss
Denison."

*' Isn't it ? " she broke in, quickly. " I think
it is. You will go in all cold indignation, and
come out all hot remorse and repentance. And
you will never see that lessons in patient self-sacrifice

are all the good you will ever get out of
the Vicarage ! "

Vernon started violently, and fell to shivering.

Shocked at the strong effect of her bold
words, 01i\da remained silently and humbly
waiting for the reproaches she expected.

CONSOLATION AT THE VICARAGE.

Olivia Denison's outburst against the Vicarage
folk and their treatment o Vernon Brander
seemed to overwhelm the latter with consternation.
He stood before the impulsive girl as if
benumbed by her vehemence ; and it was not
until her restless movements and bending head
showed that she felt uncomfortable and ashamed
of herself that he tried to speak and to reassure
her. For it was evident that she thought her
boldness had deeply offended him.

"You do them injustice, Miss Denison.
Though I know it's only through your kind
feeling for me. There is nothing my brother
would not do for me ; he always takes my part
most valiantly."

Ah, your brother, perhaps. But Mrs. Brander
! She doesn't. And a woman can do you

snore harm by raising her eyebrows at the mention
of your name than a man could by preaching
a course of sermons against you."

"But why should she? Miss Denison, I
can't believe it."

*' Do you believe what I tell you, that Mrs.
Brander warned my step-mother against admitting
you into her house ? "

'' I must believe it, since you say it is true.
But I am sure there must be some explanation
"

Of course there will be an explanation ;
and one that will satisfy you perfectly, I have
no doubt," interrupted 01i4a, impatiently.
Mrs. Brander will be able to explain everything,
and make you see how entirely right and
natural it is that you should have no friends
but those at the Vicarage."

She saw by the change in his face that she
had succeeded in sowing the seed of what she
considered a wholesome suspicion in his mind ;
and rather afraid of trusting herself to further
speech on a matter which lay nearer her heart

than lie cared to show, she held out her hand
abruptly, saying 

Good-night, Mr. Brander."

She knew he was grateful for her interest in
him; she knew he had that day been happy
in her society. But she was quite unprepared
for the flash of passionate feeling which suddenly
shone out of his dark, thin face at the
touch of her hand.

Good-night," he said ; " good-night. I
had forgotten what such a thing was  as a
friend until, until you came. They are very
good  my sister-in-law, and even my old housekeeper.
But they are cold ; at least, they are
not like you. There is something in the very
touch of your hand, in the kindness of your
eyes, that warms one and makes one feel 
human again. God bless you. Miss Denison ! "

He had hurried out his words so fast, in
such a low, hoarse voice, that Olivia scarcely
heard more than half. But what she did hear
touched, melted her, made her heart open with
a yearning tenderness she had never felt before.

even for her beloved father in his troubles. She
let Mr. Brander hold her hands in the grip of a
moment's passionate happiness, and only sighed
out a faint protest against his fervent words.
It was he who first woke from the entrancing
pleasure of that moment's mutual sympathy.
Letting the girl's hand drop, he stepped back as
abruptly as if they had been interrupted, leaving
her confused and ashamed at her involuntary
show of feeling.

Through long years of self-control on his
side, through pride on hers, they both recovered
their outward composure so quickly that a very
keen observer, who happened to pass a moment
later, could detect no sign of unusual emotion
in either of them. This passer-by was Ned
Mitchell, who touched his hat to Miss Denison
with a significant air of being determined to
remark nothing, and nodded to the clergyman
with a side-glance of no great favour. As she
caught sight of him, Olivia drew a deep breath
and shivered, as if some forgotten horror had
become suddenly vivid. Instead of allowing

Mr. Brander to take a formal farewell of her, as
lie was about to do, she detained him by a
gesture until the colonist was out of hearing,
and then made an impulsive step nearer to him.

I had forgotten  quite forgotten," she
panted out. " That man  do you know who
he is?"

No."

Do you know why he is here? "

No-o. But I have sometimes made ugly
guesses."

"They were right; they were true. He is
the brother of Nellie Mitchell."

She communicated this intelligence in the
lowest of whispers, and he received it without a
perceptible movement. She did not know what
to do next  whether she should attempt to comfort
and reassure him, or whether she should
quietly slip away while he was apparently absorbed
in his own thoughts and unconscious of
her presence. She decided on a middle course.

Good-bye, Mr. Brander," she said, in a
gentle and timid voice. He started, and as he

turned towards her, she noted narrowly the expression
of his face. Whether the waning daylight
had now grown too faint for her to see
properly, she could not be sure ; but it seemed
to her that there was more relief than alarm in
his eyes, which were glowing with keen excitement.


When did you find this out ? " he asked.

'' This afternoon, on my way to St. Cuthbert's,"
she answered, promptly.

On your way to St. Cuthbert's ! " he
echoed, very softly. Olivia blushed and bit her
lip, but she answered readily enough, holding up
her head with some dignity

You had been insulted by my people. I
came to apologise for them. That was only
natural, as you were my friend."

Mr. Brander smiled. He seemed already to
have quite recovered from any shock her alarming
information might have been supposed to
cause him.

That was generous of you  and like you,"
he said. " But it was very unwise. Do you

want to set all the old women's tongues 

r

to

I don't care," murmured Olivia, defiantly,
though she cast down her eyes ; " besides, I
didn't stop to think."

'* But you ought to stop to think. You
haven't always some one at your elbow to do it
for you, as I verily believe a woman ought to
have."

But I was in the right," said Olivia.

"I don't know about that. However, we
will leave that unsettled. How came this man
to speak to you ? "

"He saw that I wanted to get into the
churchyard, and so did he."

And he told you he was Nellie Mitchell's
brother ? "

Yes," answered Olivia, who felt the hotblood
burning in her face as he mentioned the
dead girl's name.

Both were silent for some moments, during
which Mr. Brander regarded the girl intently,
trying to fathom her thoughts.

And you thought it would interest me to
know this ? '' he asked very gently.

I  I was afraid so," she burst out, and
impulsively hid her face for a moment in her
hands.

She heard his breath come fast ; she seemed
to feel that his hands were near her, hovering
over her, almost touching her ; and she remained
motionless. But when she looked up
he was some paces away, busily employed digging
holes in the ground with the point of his
umbrella. As she looked up, their eyes met.

Yes. You are right. It does interest me,"
he said, gravely. Olivia's face fell. At sight of
this change in her expression, Mr. Brander's
composure suddenly gave way again  broke up
altogether. He showed himself suddenly in an
entirely new light, swayed by excitement so
tempestuous that the girl realised for the first
time the depths of passion which still remained
in this man under the burnt out crust. In a
moment she recognised the fact that he was
capable of impulses and of acts which she could

neither measure nor understand. For good or
for evil, his was a nature deeper and stronger
than hers. This knowledge, so suddenly borne
in upon her, gave her a new interest in, and
respect for, him, even while it made her reluctantly
admit that the possibility of his having
committed a great crime was far clearer to her
than before. All this flashed into her mind in a
second of time, as his agitated face turned towards
her just before the feelings which surged
within him broke on his lips in hoarse, incoherent
speech.

I must tell you Oh, God ! Why should
I not tell you 1 Who in the whole world deserves
to hear the truth as you do ? Listen ! "

No need to tell the girl that. Her heart
was in her eyes. She held her very breath in
the intensity of a rush of feelings which made
her wet and cold from head to foot as she stood,
unable to utter a word, waiting for the fatal explanation.
He had come a step nearer to her,
the first words of his confession were on his lips,
when a bright, high woman's voice broke upon

their ears. The sound acted on Vernon Brander
Hke a stroke of paralysis. His right hand, raised
in eager gesture, fell to his side ; into his excited
face came suddenly the vacant stare of idiocy.
As for Olivia, the tension on her feminine nerves
had been too great.

She drew a long sigh, and burst into tears.
Then, before he could recover himself sufficiently
to offer one word of comfort or apology, she
muttered a hasty " good-night," and hurried
through the farmyard gate towards her
home.

Vernon could only watch her retreating
figure a little way, as an angle of the big barn
that stood opposite the farmhouse soon hid her
from sight. Then he went on with slow, dogged
footsteps to meet his sister-in-law ; for it washer
voice that had disturbed his tete-astute with
Miss Denison. The suspicions of the latter had
already borne some fruit in his mind; for he
asked himself whether Mrs. Brander had not
come out on purpose to interrupt them. What
other motive could bring that comfort-loving

lady out into the damp and cold of a wet April
evening ? He dismissed the idea from his mind
almost as soon as it entered ; nevertheless, it was
a just one,

Mrs. Brander had called on Mrs. Denison
that afternoon, and had learnt, through the indiscretion
of the latter's husband, enough of the
morning's proceedings to fill her with anxiety
and annoyance. The vicar managed to restrain
her first impulse, which was to go straight to
St. Cuthbert's to see Vernon.

*' You will be putting yourself in the wrong
if you do that, my dear," said Meredith, quietly.
"If he thinks he has any cause of complaint
against you, he is not the man to nurse it up
silently. He is sure to come straight here on
the first opportunity to ' have it out ' with you.
And then I have no doubt of your powers of
making the rough places smooth again."

Evelyn Brander submitted to her husband's
judgment, with a doubt which he made light of.
A few months ago she could have made her
brother-in-law take her own view of any matter:

now there was an unpleasant possibility that he
might take somebody else's.

As the afternoon wore on, therefore, and
Vernon did not appear, she went the length of
watching for him at one of the drawing-room
windows which commanded the best view of the
road ; and when the tenant of the adjoining
cottage returned home, she threw up the sash,
and asked him if, in the course of the rambles
round the parish which he was known to be in
the habit of taking, he had that day met the
vicar of St. Cuthbert's. The colonist, being an
observant man, noted the lady's anxiety, and the
unusual courtesy towards himseK to which it
gave rise.

"Your brother-in-law, madam," said he
bluntly, " is standing at the bottom of the hill.
He has been standing there some time, I believe."
Then the idea of a little experiment crossing his
mind, Ned Mitchell made a pause to give the
more effect to his next words. " He is with
Miss Denison, of the farm down yonder."

Mrs. Brander's handsome eyes flashed ; with
h

what feeling, whether jealousy, or anger, or disquietude,
he could not be sure. She bestowed
upon him a little polite smile of thanks for his
information, and said it was an unpleasant
evening. But it was evident that her interest
in him was gone ; and as he had nothing more
at present to obtain from or to impart to her, the
colonist gave the off-hand touch to his hat which
was the most respectful form of salutation he
ever bestowed, and retreated into his cottage.
Mrs. Brander shut down the window with one
vigorous pull, and in two minutes was sallying
down the hill through the mud and the drizzle,
her handsome dinner dress held at a height more
convenient than graceful, her kid shoes encased
in stout goloshes, an old macintosh of her
husband's buttoned round her with the sleeves
left swinging, and a huge carriage umbrella held
over her head. She was a practical woman, and
if one liked to wear handsome clothes, there was
no reason why one should spoil them for the
sake of a more picturesque appearance for ten
minutes on a wet evening. As she passed the

end of her neighbour's garden, that gentleman,
who was on the watch underneath his porch,
addressed to her an admiring word.

Well done, ma'am ! " cried he. "As long
as you parsons' ladies do your husbands' district
visiting in such weather as this you'll stave off
disestablishment, I reckon."

Oh yes," she called out in answer, being in
one of those anxious moods in which the proudest
woman is afraid of giving offence to a fellow
mortal ; " you don't know yet what weak woman
is capable of."

These were the words she was uttering when
the faint sound of her voice startled Yemon and
Olivia as they stood together at the foot of the
hill.

When Miss Denison left him, Yemon had
only a few steps to take before he met his sister-in-law,
who greeted him vith the calmly affectionate
manner of a relation with whom one is
on perfectly good terms. She gave her umbrella
to him to hold, and passed the disengaged hand
lightly through his arm. Instead of proceeding
k 2

up the hill with her, however, he stood still,
remaining as stiff as a wooden soldier.

Aren't you coming up to the house ? " she
asked, with innocent peremptoriness.

No, thank you," said he, coolly, but with a
coolness utterly different from hers, as it arose
from the chilling of a warm nature, not from the
innate frigidity of a cold one.

Oh, but you must ! I was peeping out of
the drawing-room window when the bear next
door came back to his den and told me you
were out here, talking to Miss Denison. So
I rushed out, hoping to catch you both, and
drag you in to dinner ; the pretty farmer's
daughter to amuse Meredith, and you to entertain
me'*

With the audacious coquetry of a cold
woman, she pressed his arm with her hand, and,
bending forward, looked into his face with her
great gazelle-like eyes, which, by a turn of her
head, she could make divinely alluring while
ordering the details of a custard pudding. But
Yernon was not now to be allured. He withdrew

this arm boldly, under the pretence that it
required two hands to hold the heavy umbrella.

Miss Denison has gone home," said he.
And I'm going home : thank you."

"What, without an umbrella ? Come as
far as the house and I'll give you one. It's
sure to rain again before you can get
back."

'' Miss Denison has got mine. I can go to
the farm to fetch it."

'well, perhaps you won't mind seeing meas
far as the door first. I can't hold that great
thing and keep my dress up too. I won't
insist on your coming in : that will do some
other time. I had something to say  to ask
you about my Katie ; but never mind. I see
you are thinking of something else."

Katie ! " exclaimed Vernon. '' What about
Katie ? "

Oh, she doesn't seem very well to-day, and
I thought perhaps "

You thought what ? Is there anything I
can do ? "

There might have been. But I can't ask
favours of you in such a mood as you are in
to-night. We are losing you day by day. You
will soon have no place in your heart even for
Katie."

I think you misjudge me, Evelyn. A child
may forget her friends when they are absent.
But at least she does not speak ill of
them."

Mrs. Brander stopped short in the mud, and
looked at him with proud indignation.

Of course I see you are insinuating that I
have done so. Your new friends have been
turning you against the old ! "

No. It seems, though I can scarcely believe
it, that my old friends have been turning
my new ones against me. Now, Evelyn, you
are honest, aren't you ? Did you, or did you
not, warn Mrs. Denison against me, as not being
a proper friend for a young girl ? "

Now, Yernon Brander only did his sister-in-law
justice when he called her honest. Her
blunt frankness, which made little account of

other people's feelings, had often been counted
against her as a fault. Moreover, it was one
result of her husband's profession that, though
not by nature over-scrupulous, lying should now
seem a great sin to her. But the issues at stake
seemed to her so great that it cost her only a
moment's hesitation to reply 

"I did not. I told her I understood you
did not think of marrying. Was I wrong? "

"No," answered Yernon, in a low voice.

Evelyn's great eyes were meeting his with
the simple, direct stare habitual to her, which
seemed to preclude the idea that she could lie.
A weaker, a more sensitive, or a more modest
nature would have shrunk from the gaze of his
burning, pleading eyes. But her character was
not built on complex lines ; she felt that she
was doing the best possible thing under the
circumstances for herself and for everybody else,
and so, her conscience being, as usual, free, there
was no need for any airs of disquietude or remorse.
And so the guileless man was caught at
the first throw of the line, and was carried off

to the house safe and subdued, while she informed
him that Katie was not well, and that if
he and his old housekeeper were willing to take
charge of the little girl at St. Cuthbert's fora
fortnight, she thought the change would do
her good.

The vicar's wife had not overrated the effect
of this proposal. To have his darling niece in
his own care for two whole weeks was a bribe
which would have tempted him to condone any
wrong. By the light which came into his face
as he quietly said he should be glad to have the
child, Mrs. Brander knew that her trump card
had been very well played, and that she had
an influence ready to her hand which might be
reckoned upon to counteract the dangerous one
of Olivia Denison's youth and beauty.

The tenant of the cottage watched the pair
curiously as they passed his garden on the way
up to the Yicarage. Nothing in the demeanour
of either escaped his penetrating eyes. Absorbed
as he was in one object, every smallest incident
which occurred in his neighbourhood was

regarded by him as having a possible bearing
upon it.

I wonder," he said to himself, as they
turned the corner into the private road at the
top of the hill, " what is the reason of the
interest that parson's wife takes in her husband's
brother ? Pretty strong it must be to bring my
lady out into the puddles in those finicking
togs of hers ! Love, passion, anything of that
sort ? She ain't built that way ; and if she had
liked him best, she would either have married
him or she'd have given 'em something to talk
about by this time. I should like to think
there was a woman in the secret  my secret ;
it would make my work seventy-five per cent,
easier."

In the meantime, Mrs. Brander and Yemon
had reached the house and had been met at the
door by the vicar, who seemed placidly amused
by the triumph and satisfaction h saw on his
wife's face, and by the subdued and even hangdog
expression on that of his brother.

Dinner was waiting ; and the vicar, who was

as much disturbed by such an occurrence as be
ever was about anything, hastened to lead the
way to the dining-room, gently murmuring disapproval
of his wife's conduct in leaving the
house at such a critical moment. The meal
passed uncomfortably ; for the unexplained uneasiness
under which Vernon was evidently
labouring could not fail to affect, in some degree,
even his rather stolid brother. When they all
adjourned to the drawing-room, the constraint
of his manner became so apparent that Meredith,
used to an atmosphere of calm respect for himself
and content with things in general, laid his
hand on his brother's shoulder and asked him,
with benevolent peremptoriness, if there was
anything the matter.

Yernon, who was standing by a table, turning
over the leaves of a magazine with unmistakable
lack of interest, started violently, and
caused his sister-in-law to look up from the
needlework with which her handsome, industrious
fingers were nearly always employed. Her
quick eyes discovered at a glance that there

was some more serious reason for his melancholy
than she had supposed. She rose, and with a
thrill of vague anxiety laid aside her work, and
crossed the room towards the two brothers.
Vernon's eyes met hers, and the expression she
saw in them caused her to stop abruptly.

Well, what is it ? Do speak out, Vernon.
We are not fools. We are ready to hear anything,"
she said, in impatient tones.

Her brother-in-law cleared his throat, looking
from the one to the other with a strange
yearning in his eyes.

I will speak : I will tell you," he said,
huskily. " I have learnt to - day something
which may cause you some alarm  for me," he
added, hastily, as husband and wife looked
anxiously each at the other. " I don't know
whether you have ever troubled yourselves
about the man who has come to live next door,
or made any inquiries about him."

Well, who is he ? What is his name ? "
asked Evelyn, while her husband remained
silently watching his brother.

He is Ned Mitchell, the brother of "

He stopped. There was dead silence in
the room. Not one of the three seemed to
dare to meet the eyes of another. Evelyn was
the first to speak. Her voice was low and
husky, quite unlike her usual bright, imperious
tones.

You are sure ? '' she said.

'' Quite sure."

Another silence.

Then the vicar spoke. His voice was not
affected by the alarming announcement, except
that it was, perhaps, unusually gentle and kind.
He laid a sympathetic hand on the shoulder of
his brother, who still remained, with head bowed
down, unable to meet their eyes.

And, of course, you think he is here about
that unfortunate business of ten years ago ? "

Evelyn shuddered, and glanced first at her
husband and then at the broken-down man on
the other side of her. Her lips moved, imploring
Meredith to be kind, to be careful. Yernon
raised his head, looking still at the carpet.

I suppose so' he answered, in a husky
voice. "Not that we need trouble ourselves.
What can he really do? Nothing. I  I amas
safe as ever."

The vicar withdrew his hand.

I hope so, indeed," he said, solemnly ; " for
all our sakes."

Yernon rose, and his eyes met those of his
brother for the first time. He tried to speak,
but only a dry, choking sound came from his
parched mouth. He seized the hand his brother
held out to him, and wrung it till the clasp of
his thin, nervous fingers left Hid marks on the
soft pink flesh.

God bless you," murmured the vicar, in his
warmest tones of encouragement and sympathy.

Again Vernon tried to speak; again he failed.
With a hasty side glance at his sister-in-law,
full of a plaintive, dumb sort of gratitude and
entreaty, he crossed the room rapidly, with
almost a staggering gait, opened the door with
clammy fingers, and hurried out.

Husband and wife, thus left face to face, said

not a word, but each gave a strange look of
searching inquiry into the face of the other.

*' Poor fellow ! " said the vicar, gently.

Mrs. Brander did not answer. With a
woman's keener sympathy, she was listening to
her brother-in-law's footsteps in the hall outside.
All there was of warmth in her somewhat cool
nature was brought to the surface to-night. As
she heard the hall door open, she uttered a little
cry, and, leaving the room quickly, came up with
Vernon before he had got out of the house, and
put a warm, loving hand upon his arm.

Oh, Yernon, Yernon ! I wanted to say
God bless you too ! " she whispered, with
tenderness most unwonted in the self-contained
woman.

Yernon looked in her face with astonishment.
There were tears in her great brown eyes : tears
which, if he had seen them a few months ago,
would have set his blood and his brain on fire.
Now the sight of them filled him with astonishment
and gratitude, but left him calm.

You are too kind, dear," he said, pressing

her hand affectionately in his. " You must not
trouble your head so much about me. Indeed
there is no need. Good-night, good-night."

He stooped and kissed her hand very gently,
very reverently, and left her, hurrying down the
lane without a look behind.

Evelyn Brander stared out into the darkness
for some minutes after he had disappeared from
her sight. For the first time, perhaps, in all her
life she felt a vague sense that there might be
something in existence more serious, more interesting
than what we should eat, and what we
should drink, and wherewithal we should be
clothed.

'' If I had only known," she murmured to
herself: " if I had only been able to know ! "

Then she looked curiously at the hand
Vernon had kissed, seeming surprised to find no
change in its appearance. The next moment,
raising her head to its usual proud angle, with a
little laugh at her own folly, she shut herself
into the house.

NELLIE Mitchell's prophecy.

When once the secret concerning the identity
of the stranger at the cottage had been let out,
it spread mysteriously throughout the length of
the straggling village with astonishing rapidity.
Ned Mitchell had come back ; and, remembering
the character for pig-headed obstinacy he had
borne at home when he was a boy, it was
safe to prophesy that there would shortly be a
shindy " somewhere. Two or three old people
now declared that they had recognised him from
the first, though they had been too discreet to
make known the fact ; and towards the close of
the day following that on which he had revealed
himself to Miss Denison, it became plain to him,
from the whispers of young girls and the curtsies
of old women, that he was the hero of the
hour.

In the evening he had the honour of a

call from the chief of the village busybodies,
a superannuated postman, who clung to his old
trade of news carrier to the community. As
Ned Mitchell lived by himseK, and locked up
his house when he was out, the visitor had to
sit on a broken horse-trough which stood on the
green under the trees opposite to the cottage
until the colonist returned from one of his long
daily rambles.

Good-evening, squire," said the old postman,
rising with fussy respect, and hobbling
quickly to the gate lest his unwilling host
should shut him out before he could reach it.

Mitchell glanced towards him, and jerked at
him an indifferent nod. The old man was not
to be rebuffed. He had that quality of dogged
and patient energy which we can most of us
show: in other people's business.

Pardon, squire," he said, with a beggar's
humility. " Don't be affronted with me for
wishing to be one o' t' first to pay my respects
to ye."

Respects ! " echoed Mitchell, shortly
I

thrusting his hands into his pockets with an
instinctive perception that these contained his
most respect worthy attribute.

Ay, squire. I'm proud to be one o' t' first
to welcome ye back to yer owt home'*

Old home ! What, do you call this
wretched little heap of mouldy bricks and
worm-eaten boards a home for me ? " asked
the colonist, contemptuously.

Noa, squire ; leastways it didn't ought to
be. But as them as have no right to 't have
got t' Hall Farm instead o' them that was born
and bred there, it's summit to welcome ye back
to t' village that's proud to have you belonging
to it."

*' Proud! Why proud?" asked Mitchell,
bluntly. *' If the village has got to be proud of
me, I ought to be ashamed of it, I should think.
And who can have a greater right to the farm
than the man who's paying the rent of it ? "

The old postman was not abashed. Each
snub administered to him did but increase, in
his eyes, the importance of the administrator.

He felt, too, that the opportunity he gave the
colonist of sharpening his wit upon him was
inclining that gentleman to look upon him with
favour.

*' Very true, squire. You that travel get a
different way o' looking at things from what us
stay-at-home folk do. All t' same, squire, I
hope as I may be allowed to give you a bit of a
hint that may, or it may not "  and the old
man nodded with mystery and importance  " be
of use to you on your business here."

My business here ! And what's that ? "
asked Mitchell, abruptly.

Well, they do say as how it were on
account of summit as happened ten years ago
that were never cleared up."

"Oh?"

And if so be as that's true, which I don't
say  neither do I say otherwise, as it aren't
true, why then what I say is," went on the old
man, whose style grew more involved the nearer
he came to the point, " that Martha Lowness,
as were her foster-sister, and them two always
/ 2

as thick as thieves, which that is a party as
knows modern she tells."

Ned Mitchell, who had been taking nuts
from his pocket, opening them with a penknife,
and devouring them ravenously, shut up his
knife and laid his hand on his garden gate
without the smallest sign of interest in the
information he had received.

*' Is that all ? " he asked, feeling his pockets
to make sure that not one nut still lurked in the
corners.

Well " began the gossip, rather disconcerted,
but ready to make the best of a bad
business.

Ah, it is all, I see," interrupted Mitchell.

And with a nod of stolid indifference, he
turned and strolled up the cottage path.

But Ned Mitchell, though he had no notion
of being grateful for the old man's information,
was not long in making use of it. No sooner
had the April evening closed in than he, having
already found out Martha Lowndes' dwelling,
knocked at the door of a small, tumble-down

cottage, where he was admitted at once hy a
woman who looked about fifty, and whose face
was careworn and deeply furrowed.

Martha Lowndes ? " said Ned.

Yes," answered the woman, looking at him
curiously.

I thought you were younger."

I'm thirty-five," said the woman, shortly.
You're Ned Mitchell, I suppose. I'd forgotten
you; but they told me you were about; so I
suppose it's you."

Eight you are."

** Come in, then."

He at once accepted the not very gracious
invitation, and sat down on one of the wooden
chairs, which she dusted for him.

And so you're come at last. You didn't
hurry yourself."

Xo, I didn't hurry myself, but I meant to
come."

Well, I thought it was odd if you
didn't, and her your favourite as she always
was."

Yes, that's true. But that was in the old
days when I was sentimental. If it had happened
when I first went away, with nothing
but the shirt on my back and my mother's
Bible, I should have worked my passage home
by the next boat, and run amuck among these
fine gentlemen till I got the right one by the
throat. But when it did happen I'd got sleep
farms of my own, and a wife and family, and
was making my pile ; so I let justice wait till
my liver wanted a change. But it '11 be justice
none the less for that."

The woman stood with her arms akimbo,
regarding him solemnly. Indeed, all capacity
for gaiety or even cheerfulness seemed to be
dead in her.

Well," she said, presently, " and what do
you want with me ? "

You can tell me something, or else I've
been made a fool of."

Yes, that's right enough. I can tell you
something. It's been on my mind this ten
year, and it's what has made an old woman of

me before my time. You remember me, ' flitting
Mattie ' they called me then, and I don't
say but what I was as good as my name. There
were a pair of us, they said; and we were
together a good deal. ' Birds of a feather,' you
know. But Nell was always closer than me ;
if I fancied anybody, all the world might know.
But she, she'd carry on with half-a-dozen, and
you might never know which was the one she'd
a liking for, or if it was in her to care for
anybody. It wasn't for a long time I myself
guessed there was something up  not till she
grew mopish and fidgety like, and set me wondering.
For awhile she'd own to nothing, and
it wasn't till one day I took her unawares like
that I found out how serious it was with her."

Serious ! "

"Yes. As serious as it could be. I taxed
her with it quite sudden one day as she was
sitting there on that same chair like as it might
be you. And she turned quite white and confessed,
and said as how it wasn't that as
troubled her most, but that he'd got tired of her,

and wanted to get shut of her, and was crazy
at the thought of the exposure and disgrace.
'Why, it's you that's got the worst of that to
bear ; not him ! ' cried I. And all on a sudden
she gets quite quiet, and as it might be bites her
lips together, so as no words she didn't want to
use oughtn't force themselves through. 'Why
don't you speak to your brother ? ' said I ; * he'd
get the fellow to do the right thing by you.'
But she only shook her head, and got up, and
began to walk about, and just said in a low voice
that I didn't understand. And I began to guess
that it was a gentleman."

'' You taxed her with that ? "

Yes. She took it all in the same sullen
way, and would name no names. But she said
he loved another woman, and she'd have forgiven
him anything but that."

But you should have got her to say who he
was, woman ! "

Do you think, if wild horses could have
dragged it from her, I shouldn't have known ? I
tell you I never knew before what was in the

girl : how obstinate she could be, nor what
strong feelings she had. It was something quite
different to what I'd ever felt, and I wasn't the
same with her as I'd been before. When she
passed through this door that evening, it seemed
as if a fierce, revengeful woman had gone out
where just a giddy girl Eke myself had come in."

Ned Mitchell was not moved by this recital
to any show of deep emotion, but the woman
could see that he was touched, and she went on
in a voice less studiously cold 

I didn't see her again for some days  not
for near a fortnight, I think. But when I did,
it didn't need her words to point out the change
in her. I didn't dare ask her many questions
that time, but I'd got some inkling by then as
to who those might be that was bringing her to
this pass. I thought I'd try to get at the truth
in a roundabout way if I could ; so I began, ' I
didn't see you at church on Sunday evening,
Nell.' Her face grew sullen at once. You see,
sir, I'd heard of a certain clergyman that was
often at the Hall Farm of an evening."

*' You mean Yernon Brander, I suppose ? "

'' Yes. And liovv Nell had been seen late o'
nights down by St. Cuthbert's."

Well, now, I thmk his coming openly to
the farm is more in his favour than not."

Unless it was a blind."

"Well?"

Well, I durst say more then, but presently,
as she sat at tea with me, I caught her eating
some grenades that was on the table in an
oddly ravenous way, stones and all. 'What ever
are you doing, Nell ? ' says I. * You'll be ill for
sure if you swallow those stones like that.' And
she looks at me with an odd smile. ' I'm
practising,' says she. ' I may have to swallow
worse than that some day.' I stared at her,
thinking perhaps her trouble had touched her
head, poor thing ! And then I got quite cold,
fancying perhaps she had it in her mind to make
away with herself. And I says, ' Nell, if ever
you feel tempted to do a mischief to yourself,
think of them that cares for you truly  of poor
Ned, away across the seas ! '  eyes, I said that,

Ned  'and of me, that's always cared for you
like as if you'd been one of my own ! ' Then
up she started from her chair, and began to roam
about the room again, restless like, just as she'd
done the last time. ' Don't be afraid, lass,' says
she to me, in a voice she meant to be rough.
I'm not going to do anything foolish  not more
foolish than I've done already, that is. While
there's life there's hope, they say, though perhaps
there's not much of either left for me ! ' ' What
do you mean, Nell ? ' says I, frightened. She
didn't answer me for a minute ; then suddenly
she turned, with her great black eyes flashing,
and said, 'If I'm found dead, Mattie, you'll know
I didn't put an end to myself. And I tell you
I'll let others know it too, if my body lies buried
fifty years first.' Oh, Ned, I shall never forget
her face. It was white like death, and the lips
all drawn back from her teeth. 'Twas as if all
life and the wish to live were burning out of her.
Why, Nell, this man, whoever he is, he surely
never threatened to kill you ! ' ' Not in words,
no,' says she, with her eyes fixed in front of her.

But there was murder in his eyes the last time
I saw him. If he's past caring for me, he may
kill me ; I don't care. But he shan't live happy
with the love of that other woman ; I swear it.
I've been true to him. I've done for him what
there's hardly a girl in England would have
done ; I've held my tongue when just to speak
would have ruined him. But I'll not die, and
be put out of the way, and let him go unpunished
1 ' I was that frightened, Ned, I could
scarcely speak. I told her not to have such
dreadful thoughts, and I reminded her again
of you, and how fond you were of her. * Yes,'
says she, with a queer smile that made me feel
cold ; * Ned would see me righted if any one
tried to wrong me. And whether I'm alive or
dead he will.' "

Ned Mitchell did not move. His face was
set like a rock, and, beyond the fact that he was
deeply attentive to every detail, it was impossible
to guess what effect the story had upon him.
He nodded to the woman to go on.

' Alive or dead, Nell ! ' says I, when I could

speak for trembling. ' What makes sou harp
so on death, if you mean rightly by yourself and
them that love you ? As for the rascal that's
brought you to this, if you won't make a clean
breast of it to your brother Sam, you'd best keep
out of the creature's way, seeing you think so ill
of him as to believe him ready to do you a mischief.
It's no good of courting harm. You've
no need to give Tray. If Sam was to turn against
you when it all comes out, you could go away to
Ned; he'd receive you fast enough, whatever
you'd done, I'll warrant. Keep a heart in you,
my girl.' But she took no notice, and went on
eating the grenades, stones and all, in just the
same way, till I tried to take the dish away.
Then she threw back her head with a hard
laugh, and, says she, ' Look here, Mattie, you
may as well leave those things here. I'm not
cracked ; I've a reason for what I'm doing. I
shall go and meet him again ; I tell you I'm
that mad about him I can't keep away when he
tells me to come. But if he tries any tricks
with me, I've made up my mind that I'll find a

chance to swallow something of his, if it's bnt a
shirt stud or a button, so as my body, when it's
found, shall bear witness against him just as well
as my tongue could if I was alive. Now you
remember that, Mattie, if things come to the
worst.'

And with that she was off and out of the
house. But I ran after her, and caught up with
her, and, ' Nell,' says I, * when are you going to
see this man ? ' For I had it in my mind to
stop her. And she gave me a queer look out of
the comers of her eyes. ' I'm going to meet
him tomorrow night,' says she. And she
snatched away her arm and ran off. That was
the last I saw of her, alive or dead."

There was a short pause.

*' Then you might have saved her," said Ned
Mitchell, at last, in a rasping voice.

Don't say that, Ned," pleaded the woman
in low tones. " Many and many's the time
I've said that to myself, and reproached myself.
But, remember, she said, ' To-morrow night '  "

** Well, you might have known that was only

a blind, with her heart set on the fellow like
that. I should have known. However, it's no
use wasting words over it now. You thought
you would see about it next day, and when next
day came it was all over with the girl."

You've no right to be so hard, Ned ; you
that were content to let the man who murdered
your sister lie peacefully in his bed these ten
years ! "

That's different. If I'd come over next
day I couldn't have brought her back to life
again," said he, in a dogged tone. But the
man's conscience was uneasy, and this made him
the more harsh towards Martha. " Why didn't
you tell this yarn you've been pitching me to
somebody that would have seen into things ? "

I did tell it to Sam. But you know Sam,
how timid he was, and slow at things. And
his wife never could abide Nell, and nothing
would ever persuade her the girl hadn't gone
off with somebody ; and, indeed, many people
believe that now, and say Nell Mitchell was
always a light sort, and it was just what they'd

expected, for her to make a bolt of it with
somebody. But I know better."

How about the parsons ? How did they
take it?"

Well, I can tell you the rights of a little
story that's not generally known. Next morning,
before anybody knew Nell had disappeared,
Parson Vernon was at Matherham Railway
Station in time for the first train to
London. His brother Meredith, who'd been
called out of his bed in the small hours to
see a dying man, came up with him while he
was standing on the platform. My cousin
Dick  you remember Dick, the miller's son 
saw the meeting ; and he says he never saw
such a contrast between brothers as those two
made ; the one coming up all fresh and smiling,
and surprised ; the other pale and ghastly, with
bloodshot eyes, and a wild, hunted look in his
face already. * Why, Verie,' says the vicar,
what are you doing here at this time in the
morning ? ' Dick says the other looked as
scared as if the hangman's rope was about his

neck. He stammered and said something about
a morning paper ; for Dick had edged near
enough to hear. But then the railway ticket
fell from his fingers on to the ground, and Mr.
Meredith picked it up sharp as a needle.
Dick saw by the colour it was a third-class
ticket to London Then the brothers looked at
each other, and Mr. Yernon saw it wouldn't do.
The other took his arm and led him from the
station, and T suppose Yernon made a clean
breast of it, and told him how bad it would look
for him to run away. And sure enough, when
the inquiry was made, the best point in Yernon's
favour was that he had done nothing to escape
it. Dick kept his own counsel, except to me
that he could trust ; and the few people that
was about just then had no wish to come
forward. For though Mr. Yernon was looked
upon as a bit wild for a parson, he was popular
too in a way, and then if not for him they'd
have held their tongues for the vicar's sake.
So there was just a fuss and a scandal and an
inquiry, and Mr. Yernon was had up on
m

suspicion, because someone had heard cries of
Murder ! ' near St. Cuthbert's that night.
And then it all died away, and everything
was the same as before except Mr. Vernon and
me : the shock made me what you see ; and
as for Mr. Vernon, he's been a changed man,
and he's that loved now that if you was to
have him up again, on something stronger 'than
suspicion, it's my belief the miners would lynch
you."

I shall take my chance of that," said Ned
Mitchell, stolidly, as he rose to go. '* So this
precious vicar that everybody thinks so much
of does all he can to shield his brother ? "

You can hardly blame him for that.
You'd do the same yourself."

Blest if I should ! Let those suffer that
do wrong, say 1. My sister did wrong ; but
she had her punishment, else I'd not have lifted
a finger for her. As for these sermon vampers,
it would be small harm if they both swung
together, I expect. I've not much respect for
parsons out of their proper place, the pulpit."

Bat Martha looked scandalised at this
speech, and seemed to regret her frankness.

You'll not go insulting the \dcar, I hope,
Ned," she said, uneasily. *' ' By their works
ye shall know them,' the Scripture says, and
if so, you've got nothing against the vicar buta
weakness for his own flesh and blood."

Well, what are his * works ' ? What does
he do ? Does he live in a poor-house, to have
more to spare for folks poorer than himself r
Does he deny himself a wife and children, that
he may be a better father to his flock ? Or, if
he despises temporal things for his parishioners,
if not for himself, does he trudge it on foot,
all weathers, to give spiritual consolation to
people too ill to come for it ? "

No-o ; that's Mr. Vernon that does all
that. But Mr. Meredith is  just what a vicar
ought to be."

A pretty figure for a pulpit ! I see. Oh,
I'll let him alone. Nothing I shall say shall
take a single one of the well-to-do creases out of
his fat face. I've other fish to fry than to go

r/i2

hurting the feelings of your pretty vicar : nearer
fear. Good-evenings'

He did not wait for his curt salutation to be
returned ; but slightly touching the hat it had
not occurred to him to take off, he opened the
door, and walked out with his usual ponderous,
deliberate step. But after going a few paces
he stopped short, and returning to the cottage,
thrust open the door, and addressed Martha
again 

You say some one heard the cry of ' Murder
! ' on the night my sister disappeared.
Who was it?"

'* A lass that was coming back from Sheffield
with her young man  Jane Askew. They're
married now, and she's Mrs. Tims. They both
heard it."

And they saw nothing, and looked for
nothing ? "

They couldn't agree as to where the sound
came from ; and perhaps neither of them's over
brave, and near a churchyard at night too. But
going along they met somebody that knew more

than them, they think ; for he was limping
along at a great rate with a scared look on
his face, and he came straight from the churchyard."


Hey, and who was that ? " asked Mitchell,
with strong interest.

A tramp called Abel Squires."
Perhaps he was mixed up in it ? "
Oh, no, I hardly think that. She was a
strapping lass, and he's a poor crippled fellow
with only one leg. Besides, what should he doit
for ? "

Anyhow, where is he to be found ? "
"Ah, that's just what nobody knows. He
used to be seen about here often enough, but
since that night he's only been caught sight of
once or twice, and then always in company with
the same person."

And that person is  "
Mr. Vernon Brander I "
Thanks. That 'U do for me, I think."
And with that he left her as abruptly as
before, and this time walked straight back to his

own dwelling without a pause, or so much as a
glance to right or left of him.

For some days after that, the stolid figure of
the colonist was missed from the village. People
began to think that he had decided that the
object of his stay was hopeless, and that he had
slunk away quietly to avoid the humiliation of
owning that his dogged obstinacy had been
beaten. The old woman who swept his rooms
and washed up his tea-things, though much
questioned, could tell nothing. He had paid
her up to the day of his departure, and had
simply told her that he was going away. But
whether for a day, a week, or for ever he did
not say. No board, however, was put up before
the cottage to announce that it was to let; so
that speculation was in favour of his return.
Martha Lowndes was the only person who
rightly guessed on what errand he had gone.
She alone would have felt no surprise if she
could have followed the track of Ned Mitchell
as he wandered about the country spending a
day here, three days there, always stolidly

unsociable, and yet always contriving to get more
information out of his neighbours than the
chastest and cheeriest of travellers could have
done. He was tracking a man down with
the feeblest of clues  a wooden leg and a Yorkshire
accent. But he was gifted with a dogged
energy and patience which nothing could daunt,
and so in the end he found his man. The place
was a common lodging house ; the time was
three weeks after he started on his search ; the
man was Abel Squires.

Ned Mitchell, when he found himself face to
face with the crippled tramp, thought that his
work was practically done  a witness found
ready to his hand. But he was mistaken.
Luckily for his object, he broached the matter
with the caution of a skilful diplomatist, so that
Abel had no idea of the interest he took in it.
But the Yorkshireman in tatters was as keen
and canny on his side as the Yorkshireman in
broadcloth was on his; he was impervious to
attack, either direct or indirect, and at the mere
suggestion of bribery he grew closer than ever.

Mitchell, however, did not give up the game,
and at last he hit upon the means of opening
the tramp's mouth. Poor Abel had a partiality
for strong liquor, and the temptation to indulge
in it was more than he could resist. The wily
Ned was cautious, and contrived to treat his
ragged companion, not wisely but too well, without
exciting his suspicion. But even under the
soft influence of rum and water, the tramp was
more difficult to manage than his tempter would
have supposed possible. It was not until after
a long convivial evening that, Abel's rough head
having fallen at last on to the table in a drunken
sleep, Ned Mitchell was able to stand over him
and say to himself, with a gleam of savage and
doubtful satisfaction breaking through the heavy
stolidity of his expression 

You miserable, tattered old beggar ! Have
I got all out of you that you have to tell, I
wonder? Anyhow, I think I know enough to
hang the right rascal by. But I shall have to
work, work, work."

On the following day, just three weeks after

he left Eishton, Ned Mitchell was again seen
leaning over his little cottage gate, smoking a
bad cigar, and staring placidly at the broken
stocks on the village green. The first persons to
note his return were the vicar and his brother
Vernon, who strolled through the churchyard
together while he was standing at his gate. The
younger man changed colour at the sight of the
colonist ; the elder wished him a cheery '' Good-day."


"Ha, Mr. Mitchell, you can't keep up your
incognito any longer. We thought you had gone
back to Australia without bidding us good-bye."

"Never fear. Parson Brander," returned
Mitchell, drily, looking straight into the clergyman's
kindly eyes ; " there's another man has
got to say good-bye to you all before I go back."
He glanced from one brother to the other as he
uttered these words. Vernon kept his eyes on
the ground, but he looked livid. The vicar
smiled, and gently shook his head.

You'll have to tell me this riddle by-and-by,"
said he in his genial tones.

Whenever you please, vicar," said Ned.

And as the two clergymen passed on, Ned
Mitchell, without deigning so much as to glance
at the younger, raised his hat to the Eeverend
Meredith Brander, a most unheard-of mark of
respect for him to bestow on any dignitary of
the Church.

NED Mitchell's pets.

Before the first day of his return to Ashton
was over, Ned Mitchell had to submit to the
threatened interrogatory of the vicar.

Ned had strolled into the churchyard, and
was examining with a rather cynical expression
a beautiful marble monument, one of the chief
ornaments of the enclosure, on which were set
forth, at great length, in gilt letters, the many
virtues of his late brother : " Samuel Robert
Mitchell, of Ashton Hall Farm, who departed
this life, February the eighteenth, eighteen

hundred and , aged thirty-nine. He was a

kind husband, a devoted father, a loyal citizen,
a faithful member of the Church," etc. etc.

And below was a similar epitaph for " Lydia
Elizabeth, relict of Samuel Robert Mitchell."

At the foot of this was a text, cut in larger

letters than the rest : "In death they were not
divided."

They were in life though," murmured
Ned, shaking his head slowly. " Never a meal
passed but they were at it, hammer and tongs,
about something or other. Marble had need be
tough, or it would split up into shivers under
the weight of lies we put on it."

At that moment he became aware that the
vicar, who had come over the grass from his
house, was standing behind him, looking much
amused.

*' Thinking aloud ! " said Mr. Brander. " A
bad habit, Mr. Mitchell. Imagine what it
might lead to if one had any crime on one's
conscience."

But parsons are supposed never to commit
crimes, aren't they ? ''

Or never to have any consciences ? "

No, I won't say that. The only criminal
of your cloth that has happened to come in my
way has felt many a prick of conscience, I'm
ready to wager."

The vicar looked at him inquiringly, and did
not attempt to hide that he felt some anxiety as
to the other's meaning.

Whoever he may be, I hope so, for the
credit of my order," said he, gravely.

Yes, vicar, and for the credit of your
family," retorted Ned, drily.

Mr. Brander did not look surprised, but
only deeply grieved. He laid his handsome
white hand on the colonist's shoulder, and
addressed him in tones of almost fatherly expostulation
and entreaty.

Look here," he said ; "I don't want to
preach ; there's nothing I dislike more than
preaching out of the pulpit. But I must say a
few words to you now I have the chance ; and
you may be angry with me if you like."

'* All right, vicar, fire away  I mean, goon,"
he corrected, respectfully. " Let me tell
you, it's not many men of your profession I
would listen to (except in church, where you all
have a prescriptive right to do your worst onus).
But I've learnt something about you

quite recently which makes me think you're
different from the rest. So, sir, when you
please, I'm all attention."

Well, then," began the vicar in his most
persuasive tones, *' don't you think it's very
uncharitable of you to come over here with the
fixed intention of ruining a man ? And all for
what ? What good can it do your unfortunate
sister now to have the past raked up, and her
sins as well as those of others dragged again
into the light ? Now, do you even think, going
to work in the spirit you do, that you are sure
to light upon the right person to punish ? Isn't
it possible that, acting with such a vindictive
feeling as animates you, you may make an
innocent man suffer, for lack of finding the
guilty one? "

No : to be plain with you, vicar, I don't
think anything of the kind. As for the feeling
which animates me, I think I ought to understand
that better than anybody : and I'll let you
know what it is. I'm not a generous man, parson
; years ago I might have been, perhaps, at

least as far as my favourite sister was concerned.

Bat I've roughed it a good bit in the world

since then, and all the pretty bloom has been

rubbed off my character, d'ye see ? But I'm a

just man; and I don't see why, if a man and

a woman sin, the woman should get all the

kicks and the man all the halfpence. That's

a vulgar way of putting it, but you'll know

what I mean. My poor sister goes wrong. I

don't say she was worth much sympathy; and

my private feeling has nothing to do with it ;

but she had her punishment. She was ruined,

and then brutally murdered. Yes, don't tell meany

humbugging stories about her going away

of her own accord : I know better. Whatever

happened, poor Nell was not the girl to slink

off like that, and never be heard of again. She'd

have come over to me, if she'd had to work her

own passage in men's clothes, as they say the

lasses do sometimes. Well, that's the woman's

end: now for the man. He gets the woman's

love, for what it's worth. I don't put much

value on such things myself ; but anyhow, he

ST. CUTHBERT S TOWER.

gets it. Then when he's tired of it and of her,
and the girl grows importunate and her love
inconvenient, he quietly puts her out of the

way, and no questions asked "

Oh, but there were questions asked, and
very inconvenient ones, too' interrupted the
vicar, gently.

Then he bit his hips, as if he had not meant
to say so much.

Aha, vicar, it looks very much as if you
had a notion who it is I'm driving at ! "

I don't pretend to deny that you mean my
unlucky brother," said the vicar, gravely. *' To
admit that is really to admit nothing, as everybody
knows he was suspected, just as they know
too that I myself never believed he did it."

"You judge him by yourself, 1 expect.
You, being of calm and well-regulated temperament,
can't understand how a member of
your family can be so different from yourself."

There you are mistaken, Mitchell, as others
have been mistaken before you. People think I
am calm because I am fat. As a matter of fact,

I have been so worried over these suspicions of
my brother that my wife has caught me pacing
up and down the room in my sleep, too much
disturbed on his account to be able to rest."

"It does you great credit to be so fond of
him ; I don't blame you in the least for it.
You do your duty as a brother, and I'll do mine."

' And I believe you'll soon come to the conclusion
that it is your duty as a brother to let
the unhappy girl and her history be forgotten as
soon as possible."

My duty as a brother is to leave your
brother alone, in fact ! "

Haven't I told you I believe him to be as
innocent of this business as I am myself? But
these suspicions, which he can't ignore  for you
take no pains to hide them  are demoralising in
the extreme. They make him silent, sullen,
mistrustful ; in fact they breed in him all the
appearances of guilt."

"Ay, that they do."

Supposing that he had committed the
crime, don't you believe in atonement? After

ten years of self-denial and hard work and
sacrifice, might not a man reasonably suppose
that his sin was, humanly speaking, washed out,
and that he might indulge the hope of some
human happiness with a woman who loved
him?"

Ned Mitchell turned at this, from contemplation
of the highly ornamental, castellated tower
of the little church, to curious consideration of
his companion's face.

Oh," he said, very drily, " I didn't know
you were encouraging him to marry."

A deep flush overspread the vicar's face at
this speech. Even his striking amiability was
not quite proof against the quiet sneer. JNo
annoyance, however, appeared in his tone as he
said 

'' Certainly I should not think of encouraging
him to marry while these cruel rumours continue
to be spread about him. It would only be
misery for both of them. But if once the evil
reports were silenced and forgotten, I should
urge him to find happiness in what I have

myself found to be the surest and best place to
look for it  domestic pleasures."

Ned appeared to consider this proposition
thoughtfully for some moments. Then he
said 

'rit's curious that you should be the first of
your family that I ever heard to be of your way
of thinking, parson, isn't it ? "

Again Mr. Brander reddened. It was an
annoying thing for a popular spiritual autocrat
to be questioned in this inquisitorial way by a
man in no way qualified to be a judge of him or
his family. But his patience was equal even to
this trial. He said, very mildly 

*' Yes, I am afraid  that is, I believe that
is so."

Well, then, I think it's too much to expect
to find another in the same generation."

There was a pause ; the vicar looking mildly
grieved, Ned munching a bit of stick with much
relish, while he regarded his companion out of
the corners of his eyes.

Evening was closing in rapidly. A thin
n 2

mist was gathering under the trees on the top of
the hill, enshrouding the tombstones and softening
the outlines of the little white stone church
and of the pretty ivy-grown Vicarage. Not a
sound was to be heard in the near neighbourhood
; and the noises of the village  children's
voices, lowing of cattle, and the carter's cry to
his horses came up faint and subdued from
below.

Suddenly this peaceful stillness was broken
by a long and dismal howl, which startled the
vicar and caused Ned Mitchell to turn his head
attentively in the direction of his cottage. A
minute later it was repeated, and before a word
had been exchanged between the two men on
the subject of this strange interruption, a yelping
and barking began, and mingled with the
howls, which still continued until the air seemed
to vibrate with the discordant sounds.

You've brought back a dog with you, I
perceive," said the vicar.

Hem, yes. I've brought two. Fond of
dogs, vicar ? "

"Very. Are you going to offer me one of
J

I don't think so. They're not exactly the
sort Mrs. B. would fancy poking about her
pretty garden. They've got queer ways, my
dogs."

You've had them some time ? "

*' Ten hours. But they were being prepared
for me beforehand. In fact, they have been
some time in training."

*' Sporting dogs, eh ? "

"Yes, and trained for a particular sort of
game."

Ned Mitchell was rubbing his chin slowly
and listening to the harsh duet with much satisfaction.
There was a quiet significance in his
words and manner which kept alive the curiosity
of the vicar.

I should like to see these dogs, Mr.
Mitchell," said he.

Well, sir," said Ned, with great heartiness ;
choose your own time."

Suppose, then, we say now ? "

Now it is, then."

Ned removed his arm from the tombstone
against which he had been leaning, and led the
way out of the churchyard with alacrity.

This place gives me the horrors towards
night time," he explained as, with unwonted
civility, he opened the gate for the vicar to pass
out first.

Why, surely a man of your sound practical
sense doesn't believe in the ghosts and goblins
that keep the ignorant out of churchyards at
night?"

No ; but such things can be done in lonely
graveyards, under cover of the popular horror.
You agree with me there, vicar, don't you ? "

This pigheaded colonist would harp always
upon the same string. As plainly as if he had
mentioned the name, his tone intimated St.
Cuthbert's churchyard and the murder of a girl
there by Yernon Brander. But the vicar was
learning how to " take " him, and he assented at
once. They crossed the little village green,
under trees whose bare branches began now to

show sin all tufts of delicate young leaves.
There was a strip of garden in front of the
cottage ; it had little space for flowers, but was
well filled with shrubs and evergreens, which
grew close up to the lower windows and almost
shut out all light from the tiny sitting-room on
the left-hand side of the door. Ned Mitchell,
leaving the path, forced his way through the
evergreens, and, holding the branches apart with
his hands, beckoned his companion to the
window, before which the vicar perceived a
couple of strong iron bars had been put up.

Why," said he, as he picked his way
daintily over the moist mould, "is it a menagerie
of wild beasts you have in there ? "

** Something very like it," answered Ned, asa
couple of brute faces, with hanging jaws and
bloodshot eyes, dashed up against the window,
licking the dusty frames with long red tongues,
and jostling each other with hungry eagerness.
Whoa ! " cried Ned, as he pushed up the
window, and stretching a fearless hand through
the bars, stroked and patted their sleek heads

with an assured strength and coolness which
told them he was their master. " I must have
the glass taken out of these panes  what there's
left of it  or my pets will be hurting themselves."


Your pets ! " said the vicar, as he peered
into the room, felt their hot breath on his face,
and listened to their hungry growling. " Well,
Mitchell, you have an odd taste in your choice
of domestic favourites. If my inclination lay in
the direction of a couple of fierce hounds like
that, I think I should consider that old kennel
in the back garden a near enough abode for
them."

What, for friends that I count upon to dome
a great service ! " exclaimed Ned, grimly.
Oh, no ! my hounds are already more to me
than his pig is to an Irishman. No place that's
not good enough for me is good enough for
them. Besides, if they were put into the kennel
they would be almost close under some of your
windows, and would disturb you and your good
lady at night. They make more than a lapdog's

yapping when they are uncomfortable, I can tell
you," he added, turning with admiration to his
hounds, who were snapping savagely at each
other, and sniffing the air with dilated
nostrils.

They seem to be hungry," said the vicar,
who, if he did not share their master's admiration,
was much interested in the brutes.

Well, which of us wouldn't be, if he'd had
nothing to eat all day? It's a part of their
education, that," he went on, as he drew back
from the window and took up an iron spade
which stood inside the little porch. ** Now I'm
going to show you how accomplished they are,
if you care to see. If I bury an old bone with
next to no flesh on it in any part of this garden,
they'll hunt it up. That is, they will if they
answer to the warranty I had with them. That's
the accomplishment I bought them for."

Dear me, very curious ! " murmured the
vicar, with great interest. " And this is your
first trial of them ? "

Yes. I only brought them back with mein

the small hours this morning, and they've
been without food ever since."

And are you sure of getting them out of
that room without their making a meal of
you ? "

I must chance that. I didn't buy them
for lapdogs, and I think I can manage them.
Anyhow, I intend to try. I suppose, vicar,
you've no mind to help me," he added, rather
maliciously, as he turned to go into the cottage.
It isn't work for gentlemen of your cloth, I
know. I don't suppose anything fiercer than a
toy terrier is allowed by the Thirty-nine
Articles."

There's no mention of bloodhounds in
them, certainly ; but I'm willing to help you
all the same, if I can," said the vicar, mildly,
preparing to follow his host into the
cottage.

Ned Mitchell looked surprised. Then he
glanced rather contemptuously from the plump
hands and neat white cuffs to the handsome,
placid pink face, and said, drily 

I'm afraid they'll make rather a mess of
your linen, parson, if they don't of you."

I must chance that, as you say yourself,"
said the vicar, calmly.

Ned nodded, and saying he would be back ina
moment, he disappeared through the porch
with a grim chuckle. When he returned, a few
minutes later, holding in his rough fingers a
handful of mouldy bones, the vicar was leaning
against the porch, thoughtfully turning up his
cuffs and his coat sleeves with the most scrupulous
neatness.

Not a very tempting feast that, one would
have thought."

Well, if they want anything more tempting
than that to make them hunt with a will,
I've been deceived in them, that's all, and back
they go to the man I bought them from."

As he spoke he took up the spade, and began
to search for a suitable place in which to bury
the fleshless bones. He decided on a spot in
the back garden, under the prickly leaves of an
auricula. There, right under the branches, he

dug a deep hole, not without much damage to
his hands and his clothes. Into this hole he
threw the bones, covering them carefully with
the displaced earth. The vicar laughed as Ned
flattened down the mould and stamped upon it.

You are expecting too much of those unlucky
brutes," said he. " I quite believe that
they might grub up a nice fresh leg of mutton,
or the body of a newly killed rabbit. But old
bones like that, and under two feet of earth ! No,
my dear Mitchell, it's not in reason."

All right," said Ned, putting his hands in
his pockets. " If you think my little experiment
is not worth watching, I won't trouble you with
my company or my dogs."

Oh, but of course I must see the end of
this. And if your hounds do answer your expectations
after all, I quite agree with you that
the best room in the house is not too, good for
such clever beasts."

They went round to the front of the cottage
again, and through the porch into the narrow
passage. Ned brought a lighted candle from the

kitchen, and proceeded to search among a bunch
of large keys which hung from a nail in the
wall. Meanwhile the dogs, disappointed at the
disappearance of their master, from whom they
had expected food, howled and yelped vdth. redoubled
vehemence, and flung themselves against
the door of the room in which they were confined
until it shook and creaked on its old
hinges. Ned glanced at the vicar with a sardonic
smile.

Have you still a mind to go in there,
parson ? " he asked, rather maliciously. " You
clergymen are holy men, as we all know, but
things have changed since Daniel's time, and I
doubt, no offence to you, whether he'd have got
off so well if he'd been pitched into a lion's cage
at the Zoo as he did among those old Persians ! "

The vicar looked nervous, certainly. But he
still stuck to his resolution of going into the
room. Ned shrugged his shoulders, and whistled
softly, staring into his companion's face as he
fumbled with the keys, and seeming rather to
enjoy the notion of the change which would

come over that pink, plump, mildly jolly countenance
when the fangs of one of the hounds
should meet in the clerical anatomy. He felt
quite sure that it was the vicar's entire ignorance
of hungry bloodhounds and their little ways
which gave him such an appearance of placid
pluck.

Are you ready? '' he asked, as he put the
key in the door. " We shall have to dash in
pretty quick to prevent the brutes from coming
out."

The vicar nodded, and came close up beside
him. Ned gave him a last and, as it were, a
farewell look, and opened the door. The hounds,
with hungry growls and jaws dripping with
foam, rushed at the opening. Ned Mitchell
was too quick for them ; he was in the room,
with the door closed behind him, before either
of the brutes could get so much as his nose
outside. Quick as he was, however, the portly
vicar was before him, and was well in the
middle of the small room by the time the door
closed.

Then Ned Mitchell found, cool as he was,
that in fancying himself able to master these
two fierce brutes, he had reckoned without his
host. In a moment he discovered that it was
only when satisfied with food and carefully
muzzled, as they had been for their journey in
the small hours that morning, that he could
attempt to cope with them successfully. Both
together they now flew at him, springing, the
one at his throat, the other at his right hand.
The attack was so sudden, so fierce, that he
staggered back against the door, in danger of
being overpowered, and struck out with unsure
aim, failing to beat them ofi".

The vicar was standing, motionless, in the
middle of the room. Ned saw his portly figure
in outline between him and the faint light, and
in the midst of his own occupation wondered,
not having any great respect for the physical
powers of the Church, that Mr. Brander did not
edge farther away from the scene of combat, or
show some other sign of nervousness.

"Shall I help you?" asked the vicar,

tranquilly, when the struggle between man
and hounds had gone on for several exciting
moments.

Ned was too busy, trying to keep oiF the
dogs, to express the astonishment he felt at
these words and the tone in which they were
spoken.

Yes, for Heaven's sake, yes, if you can ! "
he panted out.

He had scarcely uttered these words in
answer, when the vicar came to his aid with
a promptitude and dash which a professional
tamer of beasts could scarcely have exceeded.
Seizing by the throat first one of the hounds
and then the other, he choked them off his
half-bewildered companion, and held them,
yelping and gurgling, while Ned, savagely
angry at "the parson's" superiority more. than
grateful for his timely help, picked up and relit
the candle with affected unconcern.

Well done, vicar ! " said he, in a tone
which betrayed that he was not particularly
well pleased. " If you can manage to hold

the brutes while I find the key, we'll soon be
shut of them."

Don't hurry on my account," said Mr.
Brander, quite pleasantly.

His bland tone made Ned's blood boil. The
colonist resolved, since he seemed to like his
occupation, not to curtail the pleasure. He
took twice the necessary time to find the key
and place it in the lock. Then, before turning
it, he inclined his head over his shoulder, and
asked, maliciously 

"Getting tired?"

*' Not a bit ! " said the vicar, mildly

Hang you ! " muttered Ned below his
breath.

The next moment he heard a rush and a
growl, and felt the teeth of one of the hounds
meet in his right leg.

Hallo ! " cried Mr. Brander ; " can't you
manage him ? "

Ned did not answer. Between pain and
rage, indeed, he would scarcely have been articulate
if he had done so. He gave the dog a

vicious kick, which sent him howling away, and,
turning the key in the lock, beckoned to the
vicar to follow him out. Before doing so, however,
Mr. Brander had to dispose of the animal
he was still holding. His arms, strong as they
were, had begun to ache with the strain, for
the dog had writhed and struggled the whole
time. Then Ned, holding the candle high, and
examining the vicar's face with exceeding interest
and equal malevolence, saw upon it an
expression Yere different from its habitual,
placid mildness. The blue eyes were flashing ;
the handsome mouth was drawn in a tight,
straight line ; the clear-cut features seemed to
have in a moment lost their plumpness, and
to have become hard and cruel ; while the soft,
white hands looked strong and sinewy as they
clasped the dog's throat. Ned watched him
curiously. The vicar looked into the animal's
bloodshot eyes with the expression not merely
of a master, but of a tyrant. Lifting him with
both hands high into the air, he gave the dog
such a shaking as set him gurgling and howling

and twisting his body with pain, and flung him
to the far end of the room to join his companion.
Then he crossed the room without any
haste, and went out at the door, which Xed
shut and locked.

And now," said the vicar, " how about the
experiment ? "

Mitchell, who was engaged in an examination
of his injured leg, looked up quickly.

Well," he muttered, in unwilling admiration,
"you are a cool hand, I must say."

Cool ! " exclaimed the vicar as pleasantly
as ever ; " one needs to be cool with acquaintances
who invite one into a sitting room furnished
with a couple of bloodhounds and
nothing else. Ugh ! " he cried, as he suddenly"
noticed the condition of his hands, which were
smeared with blood and foam, " what a mess
those brutes have made me in ! "

Ned laughed shortly, and continued to stare
at him with the deepest interest.

It looks very unsuitable now, that same
mess, when you are all the parson again," he


said, drily. " But, curse me with, book and
with bell if I don't think that a minute ago
you looked as if you could stand the sight of
blood as well as any soldier."

And why not ? " asked Mr. Brander, who
had by this time wiped his hands, pulled down
his cuffs, and almost recovered his usual exquisitely
neat appearance. ** People seem to
forget that we parsons were not horn in the
surplice, and that we have all been through the
same training as other men from whom a little
readiness with wrists and fists is expected as a
matter of course."

That's true, parson. But we'd always
looked upon you as one of the meek 'uns. Now
if it had been your brother "

Ah, poor Vernon ! I think all the spirit
has been badgered out of him."

Well, but, parson," said Ned, still gazing
at him with the same steady and curious stare,
I think you have spirit enough for two."

Mr. Brander turned and met his look
straight, eye to eye.

Yes," lie said, quietly and firmly ; " and
when it comes to an attack upon my brother,
you'll find that spirit a more serious thing to
deal with than you expect."

They had come through the porch and out
into the garden again, and were standing very
near together, with the setting sun throwing a
weak and watery Kght upon their faces. A
passer-by, noticing their attitudes, looks, and
tones, would have guessed that a challenge had
been thrown down and taken up.

The two men bade each other good-night
in a manner which showed on each side both
caution and mutual respect. And having retired,
each to his house, they instinctively
tried to get a sight each of the other. The
clergyman went to his study, and seated himself
with a book at the window ; Ned Mitchell
took the air at his back door. The vicar remained
calm and smiling, and looked amused
when he caught Ned's anxious look. The
colonist took things less easily.

That parson '11 be a very difficult beggar

to tackle," he said to himself almost despondingly.
" I could manage Vernon by himself,
but with this old ' Soap-yours sides' behind him,
it'll be a long job  a very long job."

But he comforted himself before going to
bed by a look at his bloodhounds !

CHAPTER XIX.

PAGE

The Bloodhounds in Training 1

CHAPTER XX.
A Strange Sick-nurse 30

CHAPTER XXI.
The " Yicarage " Haymaking 58

CHAPTER XXII.
Ned Mitchell's Promise 86

CHAPTER XXIII.
A Midnight Visitor 117

CHAPTER XXIV.

PAGE

A Nocturnal Intruder . . . 146

CHAPTER XXV.
A Discovery at St. Cuthbert's 175

CHAPTER XXVI.
The Vicar's Confession 203

CHAPTER XIX.

THE BLOODHOUNDS IN TRAINING.

The Eeverend Meredith Brander had not been
Vicar of Eishton and compulsory student of the
wiles of frail humanity for fourteen years for
nothing. When from his study window he saw
Ned Mitchell  after many yawns, several sleepy
stretching out of his arms, and an occasional nod
of the head  retire from his back door and shut
himself in, it seemed to the vicar by no means
certain that his neighbour had gone to bed.
So he withdrew a little way into the shelter
of his window curtains, and remained on the
watch, beguiling the time by composing a very
pretty opening for next Sunday morning's
sermon, wherein the rising moon, as it showed

more and more of his laurels, was used to typify
B

the grace of repentance illuminating the dark
places of the heart.

And the result justified Mr. Brander's
doubts. Ned Mitchell did, it is true, go to bed,
but he speedily got up again, impelled to this
freak partly by the pain in his injured leg and
partly by his unsatisfied curiosity concerning the
accomplishments of his dogs. The vicar smiled
as, after an hour and a half's watching, he saw
Ned's candle glimmering weakly through the
blinds ; first on the upper floor of the cottage,
and then on the lower. Presently Ned himself
re-appeared at the back door, which he set wide
open, before proceeding to draw on his hands a
pair of stout leather gloves. Then he retreated
into the cottage again, and gave the vicar
time to open his window a little way very softly.
As he did so, sounds of yelping and scuffling
reached his ears from the cottage, and a few
moments later the hounds rushed out into the
garden.

The month was May, and in this cold north
country the trees both in the vicar's garden and

in that of his neighbour were as yet only thinly
covered with leaves ; so that there was little to
hide the movements of the animals, which, after
a preliminary scamper round the house and an
attempt to get through the bars of the gate,
began to sneak about close to the walls and under
the shrubs, sniffing, prowling, scratching, like
uncanny creatures half seen in the moonlight,
making the branches of the evergreens sway and
rustle, and uttering from time to time a yelping,
whining sound, as they grubbed and searched
restlessly for food. The vicar pulled aside his
curtain and watched with great interest. The
hounds were getting  whether by accident or led
by scent he could not yet tell  nearer and nearer
to the shrub under which Ned Mitchell had
buried the untempting bones. Ned himself, from
the upper floor of the cottage, was intently
watching them. Hither and thither the brutes
roamed, in apparently random search for something
to appease their hunger. With nose
pointed always to the earth they crept slowly
along, or bounded a few paces, sometimes raising
B 2

the night echoes by a deep howl, more often
uttering the low, wolfish sounds of half starved
savage creatures. Bat aimless as their wanderings
seemed to be, often as they deviated from a
straight course to it, they did both come, slowly
but surely, nearer to the auricula. The vicar rose
from his chair ; Ned Mitchell hung his whole
body out of his little window. As the animals
drew closer to the place where the bones were
hidden, they seemed to the careful eyes of the
watcher to grow more excited, to yelp and whine
more savagely, to sniff the cold earth with
keener nostrils. At last the muzzle of one of the
hounds touched the prickly leaves of one of the
lowest branches of the auricula. He drew back
with a snort of pain. A minute later, however,
drawn by his irresistible instinct, he returned,
and, making a furious attempt to pass under
the low branches, retreated again, whining and
savage from the effect of the pricks he had
received. The third time both dogs drew near
together, and this time  regardless of the
scratches inflicted by the thorny boughs on their

backs  they pushed their way under the auricula,
and began to grub and to scratch up the earth
with might and main.

In an incredibly short space of time, considering
the depth of earth with which Ned had
covered them, the bloodhounds had dug up the
buried bones and were crunching them ravenously
with their powerful jaws. Ned, uttering a short
laugh of triumph, raised his head and caught
sight of the vicar, who now, regardless of concealment,
was pressing close to the windowpanes
of his study a face which looked of a
greenish pallor in the moonlight. Ned watched
him with  an intent, glaring gaze for a few
seconds ; then, shutting his little window rapidly
and noiselessly, he slipped out of the cottage by
the front door, and, making his way round to
the back stealthily under cover of the evergreens,
crept along in the shadow under the dividing
wall until he stood, unseen by the vicar,
almost under the latter's window. After the
lapse of a few moments his curiosity was
rewarded.

" Poor Yernon ! My poor brother ! " murmured
the vicar with a heavy sigh.

Then Ned, hugging himself and indulging
in a knowing smile of satisfaction, heard the
study window close.

He crept back into his little house by the
way he had come, narrowly escaping the attentions
of his hounds, which having quickly
finished the scanty meal the dry bones afforded
them, seemed inclined to try, as more nourishing,
the person of their master. He went indoors,
armed himself with a plate of raw meat in one
hand and a short whip in the other, and calling
them into the house succeeded in shutting them
up once more in the room they had previously
occupied.

Good dogs ! good dogs ! " he said, approvingly,
as he stood at the crack of the door and
watched them snarling over their food. " That's
nothing to the' meal you shall have when you've
hunted out the next lot of old bones I shall set
you grubbing for."

And with another grim chuckle as he closed

the back door and gave a glance at the now
deserted study window of the Vicarage, Ned
Mitchell retired for the night with a light heart
and a good conscience.

Next morning Xed was early on the watch,
in spite of the fact that the wound in his leg gave
him a good deal of pain. He saw the vicar go
out a couple of hours earlier than usual ; and
instead of walking, as was his custom in the
morning, he was on his cob. Xed nodded to
him as he went by, and timed his absence by a
ponderous gold watch which was with him night
and day.

An hour and twenty minutes," he said to
himself, as Mr. Brander returned at an ambling
clerical pace, and, meeting the nurse with his
little son descending the hill for their morning
walk, gave the boy a ride in front of him as far as
the stables. " Yes, parson ; just long enough to
ride to St. Cuthbert's, catch your brother before
he started on his parish work, have a quarter of
an hour's chat  about the weather, let us say 
and be back in time for your own morning walk."

Perhaps Ned Mitchell's shrewd face betrayed
his suspicions ; perhaps the wily vicar's knowledge
of men was greater than any that books
on divinity could impart : for, seeing the colonist
leaning as usual over his garden gate, his shrewd
eyes lazily blinking in the spring sunshine, Mr.
Brander nodded, wished him good-morning, and
added, cheerfully 

"On the watch, eh?"

Perhaps, vicar," answered Ned, touching his
hat, with a knowing twinkle in his eye.

"How are the pets this morning, after their
night's work ? "

Night's work ? " echoed Ned, who had
entertained the mean suspicion that the vicar
would not own to his nocturnal observations.

Yes. I did a little bit of spying too,
last night," answered Mr. Brander, who seemed
to take a frank and boyish delight in an open
and declared warfare with his neighbour. " How's
the leg this morning ? "

Ned, who chose to think that the vicar
might have prevented the injury to his limb

if it had so pleased him, answered with a tone
which w r as in marked contrast to the good
humour of the other.

"It'll do," he said, shortly. "How's your
brother this morning ? "

Again Mr. Brander seemed to take a
buoyant pleasure in his antagonist's cuteness.


"My brother is very well," he said, smiling.
And I'm sure, whatever you may think, that
he would be quite pleased to hear of your kind
inquiries."

Well, we shall see about that," said Ned.
Now, come, parson," he went on, persuasively,
you might just as well confess what I know 
that you rode over to St. Cuthbert's this
morning to put him on his guard against my
tricks."

And may not one with good reason put
an innocent man on his guard against an avowed
enemy ? "

I am not your brother's enemy, Mr.
Brander. I am the enemy of the man who

murdered my sister. It is } 7 ou who are saying
that they are one and the same."

No, no, no ! " broke out the vicar, with
vehemence unusual to him. " The fact is, you
have come here with what you consider a strong
case against the poor fellow, and everything you
hear goes to pad up that case. If I believed in
my brother's guilt, do you suppose I should
leave my little daughter in his care, as I have
done for the last week, and intend to do for
another fortnight ? "

Why not, parson ? " said Ned, very quietly.
Neither you nor I are simple enough to think
the worse of a man because he happens to have
made a little slip by the way. The man who
murdered my sister didn't say to himself, ' I
will change my whole course of life and become
a murderer,' as if it were a profession. No,
he is going about the world at this moment just
like you or me, doing his daily duty as well ashe
can, and perhaps feeling sorry enough for
that little slip to better his life in atonement
for it."

Indeed, indeed he is," broke in the vicar,
earnestly. " If you could see how my brother
works ; how he tries by every means "

Hadn't we better leave your brother's
name out of the discussion? " asked Xed, with
a touch of dry insolence. " You are not
anxious to fix the noose round his neck yourself,
I suppose."

The poor vicar looked beyond measure crestfallen
and disconcerted. After all his assertions
of his brother's innocence, to have betrayed
himself like that ! He stammered and tried
to explain away his unfortunate admission ; but
not succeeding very well, he made haste to cut
short the conversation and retreat into the house
with his little son.

Ned Mitchell was not left long without
an object to interest him. He remained sunning
himself at his garden gate for some minutes
after Mr. Brander's disappearance, and then
retired into his cottage, from one of the tree-shaded
windows of which he soon saw a person
approaching, at sight of whom his rugged

features seemed to tighten, the only sign they
ever gave of unusual excitement. It was Vernon
Brander. From the curious glances which the
clergyman cast in the direction of the room
in which the bloodhounds, now asleep after
a good meal, were still confined, it was clear
he had been fully informed concerning them.
He stopped before the garden fence, peering
among the evergreens with evident interest. But
as Ned appeared at the door, with the intention
of a little talk with him, he hurried on towards
the Vicarage without another glance at
the cottage. Ned looked after him with a curling

up.

I suppose some people would admire that
fellow, with his lanky face and his good deeds.
But I never did have any fancy for your martyrs,
especially when their private life won't bear
looking into."

And after watching the clergyman until he
had turned into the private road, Ned directed
his attention to two visitors, who, attracted by
certain rumours about the occupant of the

cottage, and the menagerie he had set up there,
had joined their forces on the way to pay
Mr. Mitchell a morning call.

These visitors were Mr. Denison and Fred
Williams. Fred had by no means got the
better of his violent admiration for Olivia Venison.
But having found her persistently " out,"
when he called at the farm, and persistently curt
when he met her out of doors, he had consoled
himself for her frigidity by taking a trip to New
York, whence he had now not long returned.
To signalise his recent achievements in the way
of travel, he wore a wide-brimmed hat and a
sea sick complexion, and carried a revolver ina
leather belt. This was his first meeting with
any of the Hall Farm people since his return, so
that, on coming face to face with Mr. Denison,
who was passing through the farmyard gate,
he overwhelmed him by an outburst of effusive
cordiality which astonished that gentleman beyond
measure, but raised his spirits, and
soothed him with the feeling that here was
a friend.

Mr. Denison was one of those simple-natured
men who are only too ready to find
a friend in any one who addresses to them
a kindly word. Things had been going badly
with him. Having started farming with all
the skin-deep energy of the enthusiastic amateur,
he had long ere this discovered the perversity
of the whole animal and vegetable kingdoms :
the determination with which sheep die of the
rot, pigs take the measles, beans and peas refuse
to come up at the proper time, and crops fail on
the slightest provocation, or on none. A suspicion
had begun to take root even in his
ingenuous mind that there was more in farming
than one would have thought while going over
a farm ; and a stronger suspicion still that,
if things did not soon " take a turn," his new
profession, instead of making his fortune, would
land him in the Bankruptcy Court. He could
not fail, moreover, to be alive to the sturdy
animosity of his rival, John Oldshaw, and to the
ever increasing pleasure which that amiable person
showed on meeting him, as his own prospects of

finally getting the Hall Farm at an easy rent
seemed to grow better.

Olivia, who understood her father's temperament
too well to communicate to him
the smallest fact which was likely to trouble
him, had never uttered the name of Fred
Williams in his presence, except to say, with
much haughtiness, that he was a quite insufferable
person. But Mr. Denison, who never disliked
anybody, would have been quite ready
to set her aversion down to groundless prejudice
when Fred listened sympathetically to a rambling
account of the last outbreak of the feud with
Oldshaw.

The fellow's such a cad, too," complained
Mr. Denison, mildly. " Not that I should think
the worse of him for not being a gentleman," he
added. " His son is a nice lad, a very nice lad,
and we get on together admirably. If he were
only in one's own class there might be a Montague
and Capulet end to the business, I fancy ;
for if he were a little better educated I should
almost fancy he was in love with my daughter

Olivia. You may have seen Olivia ? " lie
continued, naively, with a touch of paternal
pride.

Yes, Mr. Fred Williams might have seen
Olivia, but was wise enough not to own to more
than this at present.

"Well, the use that young fellow has been
to me  me, a man old enough to be his father 
is something remarkable. In fact, I don't mind
telling you" (Mr. Denison didn't mind telling
anybody) " that if it hadn't been for his hints, I
should never have been able to carry on the
farm at all. Why, if I give him  on the strict
Q. T. you know, for it mustn't come to his
father's ears  a commission to buy me a few
sheep, or a well-bred shorthorn, and his father
sends him to market for the same purpose, he'll
contrive to get me the best, Mr. Williams  me
the best  I assure you."

Indeed ! " murmured Fred, with a deferential
courtesy entirely new to him.

Yes, I assure you it is so. Now I am not
one of those old fools who fancy that a young

man will do such a thing out of friendship fora
man of his father's generation. I see there is
something behind it," continued Mr. Denison,
astutely. "And I confess," he went on, growing
more confidential as his small friend, while
listening more sympathetically than ever, linked
his arm within that of the farmer, "that I
almost wish my daughter hadn't been ' brought
up a lady,' as the saying is, when I see what a
very good thing young Oldshaw and I could
have made of it together  he with his knowledge
of practical farming, and I with my  with my
knowledge, my  er  my knowledge of the
world, in fact."

A very good idea, sir  a very good idea,"
assented Fred, enthusiastically. " At the same
time, you might find a son-in-law who could help
you without looking so far beneath you. I say
so far," he went on, " because there is a something
about you that  er  makes you sort of
different from other people, you know; a dignity
or high breeding or something ; and perhaps
your daughter may have a touch of it. I say

perhaps, you know, because I scarcely know
Miss Denison."

"Well," said Mr. Denison, swallowing the
bait with all simplicity, " I suppose there is, as
you say, a certain cachet about a man who has
lived so much in town or near town as I have.
And whatever is best about me my Olivia has
certainly inherited. But whoever my child
marries, it must be for her own good ; not for
mine."

Simple, selfish Mr. Denison thought there
was something rather praiseworthy in this declaration.
Fred listened shrewdly.

It must be much worse to be badly off, or
or not to be exactly flourishing, when one
has a family to care for and provide for," he
suggested.

Mr. Denison seized his hand.

My dear lad, that's just it," said he, most
earnestly and in all sincerity. " A man on a
farm by himself must be in heaven. On the
same farm, with a family, he may be in  in
quite another place."

I see, I see," murmured Fred, pressing his
arm against that of the older man. " Money
market tight, and all that."

Tight, I believe you ! " assented Mr. Venison,
bubbling over with his confidences, as weak
men do when they have had to exercise an unwonted
self-repression. " You would scarcely
believe what the tightness amounts to sometimes.
A young man in your position couldn't
realise it."

Oh, yes, I could, though. Nothing of that
sort that you have ever borne is as bad as what
my guvnor's gone through lots of times. It was
before he was blessed with me, and of course he
don't talk about it ; but you may take my word
it's true."

Dear me ? " said Mr. Denison, as if this
was almost inconceivable. Though in truth the
airs of patronage the elder Mr. Williams liked
to assume had often caused him to jibe gently in
the bosom of his family at the waste of pounds
by men who were better used to pence.

But it seems worse for you, you know 
C 2

don't seem natural somehow. Seems as if it
were the right and proper thing for you to have
lots of money. Makes me uncomfortable to hear
you haven't, and  and all that sort of thing,
you know."

He gabbled out this broken speech with an
air of modest confusion which touched Mr.
Denison, whose finances were at a distressingly
low ebb. He pressed the young fellow's arm in
silence  rather awkwardly, but with much feeling.
Fred went on, quickly 

"Now don't be offended; you mustn't be
offended. I'm not of enough account in the
world for a man like you to be offended with
me. But if you wouldn't mind  you needn't
think anything of it  if you should be tight, I
mean strait, anything like hard up, in fact, I
should really feel it quite an honour if you
would  "

Poor Mr. Denison was quite broken by this
offer, which came upon him unexpectedly. He
protested, stammered, grew red in the face, and
dim in the eyes. He was a gentleman, sensitive,

and not without pride. But he was weak-natured
 harassed by difficulties he saw no way
out of. Although he repeatedly refused Fred's
repeated offers and with perfect sincerity, he did
so in a tone which encouraged the young man to
think that his yielding was only a question of
time and of an adroitly chosen moment.

At any rate, you're not offended with me
for making the suggestion ? " Fred asked at last.

He was glad to see that Mr. Denison looked
rather disappointed to think that he was taken
at his word.

Offended ! Xo, indeed, my dear boy. One
can't afford to be offended at a friendly offer
nowadays."

I daresay, you know, I haven't put it as
nicely as I might, and that's why you go on
refusing. Of course, my manners are not up to
yours. You're refined ; I'm not. But I mean
what I say, and that's something ; if you can't
be refined and all that, anyway it's something
to be sincere."

It's everything, in my opinion. I shall

not forget your disinterested kindness, Williams.
But what put it into your head I can't
think."

Came like a flash, you know," answered the
young fellow, promptly. " Gentleman  handsome,
dignified gentleman, credit to the parish
looks humped. What's the cause? Sure to
be the old thing  money. Besides, we've a
mutual interest, you and I : you're fond of dogs.
I suppose you've come up to see those hounds
they say Mitchell's got ? " he suggested.

For, on reaching the garden palings of
Church Cottage, they had both stopped, as if
their journey were at an end.

"Well, yes  no; I had come to see Mitchell,
certainly ; and I have heard about these hounds
he's brought back with him. But that wasn't
altogether my reason for coming."

He would have babbled out his reason with
his usual ingenuousness if Ned had not interrupted
the conversation by calling " Grood-morn-
ing ! " approaching them in a leisurely manner
at the same time.

I know what you've come for," he said,
with a nod to the younger man. " They're in
there. Don't be too familiar, unless you want
to leave a pound of flesh with them."

And he jerked his head back in the direction
of the room where the bloodhounds were
kept. Fred Williams did not wait for further
conversation, but raising his hat with great
ceremony to Mr. Denison, and shaking his hand
warmly, he went through the gate and up to
the cottage window. Xed threw at him with
some disdain what may be described as half a
glance.

Unlicked cub, that ! " he said, not much
caring whether the subject of his remark heard
it or not.

The guileless and grateful Mr. Denison
demurred at this, and Ned did not think the
point worth discussing.

I suppose you didn't come up to talk
about dogs? " he asked, drily.

Why, no. As a matter of fact," said Mr.
Denison, with the hesitation of a person unused

to come straight to the point, " I have heard
odd reports about ; I  I  "

"Have come to the wrong shop, Mr.
Denison, if you expect to hear any village
gossip from me."

Quite so, quite so. But everybody knows
now why you're here," said Mr. Denison.
"And as the man they say you're after is an
admirer of my daughter's  "

' They say ' a lot of things, Mr. Denison,
which I'd advise you not to listen to."

But I've been quite discourteous to this
gentleman on the strength of your suspicions ! "

Well, I should find some stronger ground
to go upon before I was discourteous again."

Then you don't believe these dreadful
stories? "

"I know nothing of any dreadful stories."

"Mr. Mitchell, I beg you to be plain with
me. Am I right in refusing to have anything
to say to  a certain clerical neighbour of
ours r

Mr. Denison, if my advice is worth

anything, have nothing to do with any clerical
neighbours."

"Thank yon, Mr. Mitchell, that is enough
for me. I see you wish to steer clear of libel.
But I understand your warning, and I thank
you. Vernon Brander shall not enter my house
again."

He wished the colonist good-morning, and
went back to his farm with a more satisfied
conscience. His wife, then, had not been sofar
wrong in her estimate of the Yicar of St.
Cuthbert's, though her treatment might have
been open to criticism. But Xed Mitchell
looked after him with the tight-lipped smile
of contempt with which he was always so
ready.

"Does he really think a few mumbling
words from him will turn that strong-willed
lass, I wonder ? " thought he.

And dismissing the subject with a short
laugh of derision, his thoughts turned to his
hounds, and to a plan which he was nourishing
very near his heart.

That very day lie resolved to put it into
practice. In the early part of the afternoon,
therefore, he strolled down to St. Cuthbert's,
found the churchyard gate securely fastened,
and, making a circuit of the walls, discovered a
point where it was of no very formidable
height.

I think my beauties could do that ! "
chuckled he to himself. And returning straight
to his cottage, he remained within doors until
the sun began to go down.

Then, going, as he now did without fear,
into the room where the hounds, again ravenous
with hunger, were yelping and savagely howling,
he cowed them with a small whip, which he did
not scruple to use cruelly, and securing the
animals in a leash, left his little dwelling with
them. The hounds were fierce, strong, and
difficult to manage. Ned, who still limped in
pain from the effects of the bite one of them
had given him the night before, cursed them
below his breath one moment and burst out
into enthusiastic praises of them the next. He

made his way with them direct to St. Cuthbert's.
going over the fields. It was growing dusk ;
the walk was a lonely one ; he did not see a
single human being as he made his way slowly
along, surprised at the ever-increasing pain his
wounded limb caused him.

At last he came in sight of the ruined
tower, the patched-up walls of which bulged
out dangerously, threatening constantly to fall,
a mass of ill-assorted fragments of brick, and
stone, wood and tiles, into the disused graveyard
beneath.

"Steady, my beauties, steady'' said he
to the yelping hounds. " Your work is
going to begin, my dears ! Steady, now,
steady ! "

And he made his way, with the hounds still
straining at. the leash, to the spot he had picked
out that afternoon.

'there are some old bones for you in there,
or I'm much mistaken, that will be worth a
king's ransom to me, and a good home for the
rest of your days to you, my beauties."

The hounds growled and sniffed, and leaped
up about him, as if madly eager to begin their
grim hunt. Close up to the wall of the old
graveyard he came, and peered over at the
irregular mounds, overgrown with rank grass
and weeds. There was little daylight left, but
his keen eyes could still see dimly into each
dark corner, filled with old stones and decaying
vegetation. His hands were trembling, stolid
as he was, with his eagerness to let the hounds
go. His eyes were hungrily roaming over the
neglected enclosure where he believed the clue
to his secret to lie, when suddenly a sound came
to his ears which paralysed his arms and seemed
to stop his fast-drawn breath. It was the voice
of a little child,

Looking again more intently than before
into the chaos of broken and misplaced tombstones,
he saw, peering out from behind a tuft
of shaggy briar and weed, the face of a little
child. It was tiny Kate Brander. Ned looked
at the fierce brutes and shivered. Another
moment and they would have been loose in the

graveyard, ravenous and blood hungry. Then
the expression of his face changed.

Yes, he has got the best of this move ;
curse him ! But the game's not played out
yet."

And, with a lowering face, and slow, heavy
gait, he turned, with his yelping brood, towards
the road home.

A STRANGE Sick-nurse.

The stolid calmness of Ned Mitchell's every-day
demeanour, which was but a mask for strong
passions and still stronger resolutions, broke
down entirely under his disappointment. If the
mouldy old graveyard of St. Cuthbert's had been
a paradise of sweet sights and sounds and scents,
he could not have been more maddened by the
impossibility of entering it. Even the innocent
child herself, whose presence among the ruined
graves had prevented him from letting his
hounds loose, shared his anger.

They can't keep the brat there always,
that's one thing," he said to himself, as he
limped along.

He found the return journey over the fields
more tedious than he  a strong, healthy man,
used to bear great fatigues without any ill effect
could have thought possible. The hounds

were growing every moment more troublesome,
straining harder at the leash, snapping and
yelping the while. The wound in his injured
leg was beginning to smart and burn, the
muscles were swelling most painfully, and long
before he reached Eishton Hill every step was
causing him acute agony. The last field he had
to cross brought him out into the road almost
opposite the farmyard gate of Eishton Hall.
Leaning against the gate and stroking the
shaggy head of a poor old mongrel which had
attached itself to the farm since she had been
there, was Olivia Denison. She looked very sad,
and stared out at the fields and the grey hills
beyond with a face out of which all the bright,
girlish vivacity seemed for the moment to have
gone. She started and blushed on seeing Ned
Mitchell, who had succeeded in reducing his
unruly pets to something like submission, but
whose temper had been by no means improved
in the task.

Oh ! " she cried, running through the gate
and coming fearlessly within the range of

the leash, " are these the dogs I've heard
about ? "

How should I know what you've heard? "
snapped Ned. " But I know what you'll feel
in a minute if you come within reach of the
brutes' jaws."

For answer to this speech, Olivia stooped and
laid her hand with a firm touch on the head of
the animal nearest to her. Whether he had
been cowed by Ned's course of treatment, or
whether there was something peculiarly sympathetic
to animals in her bold manner of approaching
them, the dog only gave an ungracious
growl, but made no attempt to resent her
advances more actively.

"And are these  bloodhounds?" she asked,
almost with bated breath.

Yes, that's what they are," answered Ned,
as if he had been challenged.

Olivia's breath came more quickly as, still
looking down at the brutes, and even playing
with the ears of one of them, she listened and
evidently read the meaning of his tone.

M AYhat have you got them for? " she asked,
raising her head suddenly, and looking at him
askance.

I've got them to play sexton for me in St.
Cuthbert's churchyard : to dig up some bones
there that were buried with less ceremony than
they ought to have had."

There are a good many bones in that old
churchyard. How do you know your hounds
will dig up the right ones ? "'

It's sixty years since any body was buried
there  until ten years ago."

And if you should happen to come upon
these bones, and even be sure they are the
right ones, how will you be sure who put them
there ? "

I don't say I shall. But at any rate it
will be a step in the right direction. And I
shall have my eye on any likely folk who
may be about, and see how they take the
discovery."

It seems to me you're no better than a
detective," burst out Olivia, hotly.
D

Well, I hope I'm no worse," said Ned,
laconically.

Olivia turned her head away, looking hurt
and anxious.

Ned, who liked and admired the girl, felt a
little sorry. He moved off with his dogs, and
began to whistle ; but the pain of starting again
made him break short off and draw his breath
sharply through his teeth. This attracted
Olivia's attention; she watched him as he
laboured up the hill, and before he had gone
very far she ran after him.

What's the matter with you, Mr. Mitchell
? " she asked. " You walk lame to-night.
Have you hurt yourself ? "

No. And what's that to you if I have ? "
he answered, curtly.

Nothing, if you don't think sympathy
worth having."

Ned stopped. The strong-limbed, plucky
women he had got used to in Australia, and
from whom he had chosen his own wife, were
rather lacking in graceful feminine w T says ; so

this pretty speech and gentle tone, coming from
a girl whose spirit he admired, touched and
softened him.

What are you up to now ? " he asked,
gruffly enough, but not without betraying signs
of a gentler feeling than he would have owned
to. "I know better than to think you'd trouble
your head about an old bear like me if you didn't
want to get something out of me'

Well, I want to get the pain out of you 
and perhaps a little of the surliness too," she
added, archly.

The first would take a doctor, and the
second would take a magician."

Are you going to have a doctor ? "

No. I can't go after one myself, and my
establishment doesn't include anybody I could
send."

I'll send for one. Ill get one of the farm
boys to go ; or, if there isn't one about, Mat
Oldshaw will go, I know."

Ned looked at her cynically.

"Poor Mat," said he. "And to think I
D 2

was fool enough myself once to run errands fora
girl who thought herself as far above me as
heaven from earth. When all the time she was
dying of love for another chap, too. Just the
same  just the same."

Olivia blushed and looked annoyed, but she
answered, quietly 

Mat would do a kind deed for any one, Mr.
Mitchell. And I should be sorry for him to
think that it is a sign of great wisdom to be discourteous
to a woman."

Very good," said Ned, grimly. " Sorry I
haven't time to let you exercise your wit on mea
little longer. Good-night."

He hobbled up the hill with great and
evident difficulty, his dogs slinking behind him.
He was absolutely faint with pain by the time
he reached home.

It. was quite dark in the cottage when he
arrived, and he made his way at once to a shelf
in a passage where a box of matches and a candle
were kept. But he felt from end to end of the
shelf without being able to find either. The

dogs, having become excited since their entrance,
sniffed about the floor, yelped and pulled afresh
at the leash, impeding his movements. He had
shut the front door on entering, relying on his
candle and match-box ; so that he could not even
see the forms of the struggling animals to avoid
them. Two or three times he stumbled and set
them growling as he groped his way towards the
room where he kept them shut up. A dizziness
was creeping over him, which seemed from time
to time almost to overcome him, while occasionally
for a moment it seemed to leave his
head again perfectly clear. He remembered, or
thought he remembered, that he had left the
door of the room wide open for ventilation ; but
now he went the whole length of the wall, feeling
with his disengaged hand, without finding
any opening. The hounds meanwhile were
growing more excited  more troublesome than
ever ; so that, in his dizzy and wearied condition,
he could not move or even think with his usual
precision. Their behaviour, however, at last
roused a suspicion in his mind.

Somebody's been in here," be muttered
to himself. " And the dogs know it by the
scent."

He had grown bewildered in the darkness,
and no longer knew in what part of the passage
he was standing, as the dogs, still straining to
get free, pulled him from side to side. Suddenly
he heard the faint creaking of a door. The
dizziness was coming upon him again, and he
turned, in a half-blind, stupefied way ; saw, or
thought he saw, a faint light come as if through
an open door, and the next moment found himself
lying on the floor, while the sound of the
hasty shutting of another door behind him fell
upon his dull ears. After this he became unconscious.


When Ned came to himself, it was a longtime
before he could remember, even in the
vaguest manner, the experiences he had just
gone through. He fancied himself in one of
the dungeons he had read about in his boyhood,
which bold, bad barons built under their castles
for unlucky prisoners who fell into their hands.

In strange contrast to the prosaic reflections
which occupied his mind in every-day waking
hours, the most fantastic fancies now passed
through his brain ; that he was a prisoner, flung
down here by an enemy ; that fetters of red-hot
iron had been fastened to one of his legs. He
thought he heard the sounds of every-day life,
muffled by the thick stone ceiling between, in
the castle above him ; the noises of animals ;
sounds of a man's voice ; then of a woman's.
He recognised the tones of the latter, he felt
sure, though he could not remember the possessor's
name. Then suddenly a light was
struck in his dungeon and a hand touched him,
and it flashed upon him that he had come back,
that he was in his own cottage lying on the
stone floor of the passage, with a grey-bearded
man kneeling beside him, and a woman's skirt
brushing against his feet.

He must have fallen very heavily," whispered
the woman.

And Ned's senses came fully back to
him.

Of course," he murmured to himself, " it's
Miss Denison."

He can't have fallen as heavily as that
unassisted," said the grey-bearded man, whom
Ned now knew to be the doctor.

Do you mean that he was thrown down ? "
asked Olivia, in a whisper of tragic earnestness.

Yes. Look at the blood on the stones."

"Oh!" The girl's teeth chattered with
horror.

There was a pause, while the doctor lifted
him gently.

That's the leg he limps with," said the girl.

The doctor touched the wounded limb gently,
but the action made Ned moan.

What shall I do with the dogs ? " asked
Olivia, presently, in the same low voice. " I
think they are kept in one of these rooms. My
father said so."

Turn the brutes loose in the garden."

But Ned, though the movement caused him
acute pain in his injured leg, struggled up on
one arm and shook his head feebly.

No, no," he said, in a weak, husky voice ;
I'm going to be ill, I know. Take me upstairs
to my room, and put the dogs into the room on
the opposite side of the landing."

Oh, come, we can't have that. It wouldn't
be a proper arrangement at all  most unhealthy,"
objected the doctor.

Ned glared at him, and instantly began to
try, in a dogged manner, to get up.

If you won't do it, or let it be done, why,
hang you ! I'll do it myself," he panted out.

"I'll do it, Mr. Mitchell," said the girl's
clear voice.

Ned heard her go upstairs, soothing and
encouraging the hounds, which scrambled and
shuffled up after her.

That's a good plucked 'un," he then remarked
to the doctor.

And satisfied now that his savage pets were
safely disposed of, he fell back on the doctor's
arm. For there was a curious buzzing noise in
his ears, and his head felt alternately very heavy
and very light. He wanted to keep his senses

clear until the young girl should come down
again, but it was only by a strong and exhausting
effort that he succeeded. As soon as she
reached the bottom stair, Olivia heard him addressing
her in a faint voice.

Thanks  thanks for what you've done.
I'm not ungrateful. Now get me some one 
to look after me  who's got a little nerve. For
I don't care  how they treat me  but they must
take care  of my dogs. For somebody wants to
get at my dogs, I know. And they must be
prevented  prevented. You'll see to this. Promise
me."

"Yes, I will, I promise," said Olivia, in a
firm voice, afraid that she was speaking to a
dying man.

She had scarcely uttered the words when he
again became insensible.

Olivia was in sore distress as to the manner
of fulfilling her promise. On the one hand, she
had to keep her word by finding a nurse for him
who would not be afraid of the hounds ; on the
other, she was particularly anxious that, if he

should grow delirious his ravings should not be
heard by any one who would chatter about
them.

"We must get him to bed," said the doctor,
as she stood debating this difficulty. " The
young man who came for me  is he about ? "

Mat Oldshaw ? Oh, yes, I expect so. He
stayed in the garden when we came in. He
wouldn't go away without asking if there was
anything more he could do."

Ask him to come in, if he is there, please."

Olivia went out into the garden. As she
passed under the porch, she saw a man slink
limping away from the side of Mat., who was
standing near the gate, and pass behind a bushy
screen of evergreens. She sprang forward to the
gate, but the man had gone out of sight.

Mat," she asked, in a frightened voice,
who was that ? "

Nobbut a tramp," he answered. " Nobody
to freight yer. It's ten year an' more since he
wur in these parts."

Oh, no, it isn't," said Olivia, decidedly.

He was here four months ago. His name is
Abel Squires, isn't it ? "

Ay, that be his name, sure enough," answered
Mat, with surprise. " Cheer did you
happen upon him ? "

"Never mind. I want to know what he's
doing about here ? "

He wants to get a sight o' Mester Mitchell,
he says."

But what did he sneak away like that, for,
when he saw me come out, instead of waiting
to ask if he could see him ? "

He don't want to be seen about here, he
says."

Mat," cried the girl, earnestly, after a few
moments' thought, " Mr. Mitchell has been
knocked down and hurt. The doctor wants
you to help carry him upstairs. I wonder if
it was this tramp who did it."

"Noa, Miss, but Ah know who did," said
a rough voice so close to her that it startled
her.

She turned and saw the one-legged man

whose conversation with Vernon Brander she
had overheard in the churchyard. The ground
was so soft with recent rains that his wooden
leg had made no noise as he approached. Olivia
drew her breath sharply through her teeth and
felt cold with terror as she looked at his weatherworn,
strangely inexpressive face. Here, she
thought, was the man whose silence about that
miserable night's work of ten years ago Vernon
had so much difficulty in procuring. And he
had come with the expressed purpose of seeing
Ned Mitchell, whom she looked upon as
Vernon's avowed enemy.

"You know who knocked Mr. Mitchell
down ? " she said, faintly.

Ay," said Abel Squires, with a nod.

She had a fancy that this man was trying
to implicate Vernon, and she scarcely dared to
frame her next question.

You mean that you saw him do it ? " she
asked, after a short pause.

Ah were standing' in 's bit o' garden at back
their," said he, jerking his head in the direction

of the cottage. " An' Ah see a mon go in, and
after a bit Ah see him coom ait. An' if Mester
Mitchell wur knocked dean," he went on,
doggedly, " Ah say Ah know t' mon as did it.
An' it bent naw good to ask me who twas, for
Ah mean to keep me awn counsel ; Ah'm used
to V

Olivia did not know what to make of the
man. Though his voice was rough, his manner
of speech was mild, and betrayed no hostile feeling
towards anybody.

Are you a friend of Mr. Mitchell's ? " she
asked, tentatively.

Ay," nodded Abel, good humoured.
He's never done naw harm to me."

Seized with a bold idea, Olivia scanned the
man narrowly from head to foot.

"Will you tell me what business brought
you to see Mr. Mitchell? " she asked, frankly.

Abel Squires examined the girl's face closely
in his turn.

"What do you know abaft it?" he asked,
shortly.

I know that he is trying to find out a
secret : a secret which I think you know."

Maybe Ah do ; maybe Ah don't ; anyhow,
Ah don't prate abaft it ! "

Then what do you want to see Mr.
Mitchell for ? "

Ah think he got summit ait o' me last
time Ah see him ; Ah want to know how
mooch."

The girl's face cleared.

"Could you nurse a sick man?" she asked.
Mr. Mitchell is ill, delirious, and I don't want
to trust him to. any prattling old woman."

Ay," said Abel, promptly ; " Ah can
dort."

Come in with me, and let us see what the
doctor says," said Olivia, leading the way into
the cottage with eager footsteps.

She was surprised at her own daring in taking
this step ; but she argued with herself that
if the tramp, possessing Vernon's secret, as she
knew he did, should wish to turn informer, there
was no possibility of preventing him, while he

would be within reach of Vernon's influence as
long as he was attending on the sick man. If,
on the other hand, he was loyally anxious to
keep it, there could be no better person to watch
over the man from whom she wished to keep
the truth.

The doctor asked Abel a few questions, and
agreed that he might be tried as sick nurse.
Tramp though he was, Squires was a man of
some intelligence, and had picked up many a
scrap of practical knowledge in the wanderings
in which his life had been almost wholly spent.
Before the doctor and Olivia had left the house,
they felt that the patient was in no unskilful
hands, while the hounds were under control of a
man entirely without fear.

As she left the cottage, after listening fearfully
for some minutes to the incoherent muttering
of its unlucky tenant, Olivia met Mat, who
was dutifully waiting in the garden to learn
whether she had any more work for him. She
stopped short on seeing him, and said, " Oh ! "
in some confusion.

"What is it?" asked Mat, whose loyal
admiration for her made him quick of apprehension.
" You want summit more done. Whatever
it mebbe, Ah'm ready to dort."

You are good, Mat," she said gratefully,
with a bright blush. " Nobody is ever as ready
to help me as you, or so quick to know when
one wants help."

Ah know modern that," said Mat, encouraged
by her praise. " Ah know, Ah guess,
what you want done."

The colour in Olivia's cheeks grew deeper
than ever. She said nothing, however ; so
Mat, after a short pause, went on, " You want
somebody to know what's happened."

Olivia laughed bashfully. " You're an accomplished
thought reader, Mat. Who is the
person ? "

Parson Vernon."

Well, don't you think he ought to know,
as  as he's a friend of Mr. Mitchell's ? "

"Ay," said Mat. " Ah'll go straight off
to him now."

Thank you, Mat. And be sure you don't
forget to tell him that Abel Squires is going to
nurse him."

"Ah'll mahnd that. Good-night, Miss
Olivia'

Good-night, Mat. I don't know what I
should have done without you this evening."

Mat blushed. " You know, Miss," he said,
in a bashful, strangled voice, " you're as welcome
as t' flowers in May to aught as Ah can do 
now and any time."

And he pulled off his cap awkwardly without
looking at her, and ran off down the hill
before he had even stopped to replace it ; while
Miss Denison, much more leisurely, started on
her way home to the farm.

Long before Ned Mitchell's illness was over,
poor Olivia had grave reason to repent her
choice of an attendant. Old Sarah Wall, who
had been in the habit of coming in for a couple
of hours daily to do the cleaning, was now installed
permanently on the ground floor, which
she had all to herself. The front door was kept

on the chain, and to all inquirers it was Mrs.
Wall's duty to answer that Mr. Mitchell was
getting on very well, hut was not allowed to
see any one. If any further questions were
put to her, or a wish expressed to see his
attendant, she put on a convenient deafness,
and presently shut the door. No one was admitted
but the doctor, even when Ned was well
enough to sit up at the front window, with one
or other of his fierce hounds at the side of his
chair, and his odd-looking attendant in the background.
The evident good understanding which
existed between master and man filled Olivia
with foreboding, and caused still deeper anxiety
to Vernon Brander, who, having called at the
cottage day after day, and failed to extract
any information from Sarah Wall, deliberately
walked round to the back garden and climbed
into one of the windows of the upper floor by
means of the water-butt. Here he came face
to face with Abel Squires, who, hearing the
noise, came out of his master's room to find
out the cause. He tried to retreat on seeing
E 2





Vernon, bnt the latter seized his arm and detained
him.

Look here," said he, in a low voice, but
very sternly ; " you've broken faith, I see."

Abel's wooden face never changed.

Well," said he, doggedly, " Ah don't say
Ah haven't. Boot it was forced ait o' me when
Ah wur crook. That's all Ah have to say."

And to demonstrate this he folded his arms
tightly, and met the clergyman's eyes stubbornly
and without flinching.

So that man knows everything ? " asked
Vernon, in a low voice, glancing at the door of
Ned Mitchell's room.

Pretty nigh all as Ah know."

Vernon's face was livid. He leaned against
the window-sill and looked out fixedly into the
Vicarage garden.

He can't do anything," he muttered.

He means to try," said Abel. " Hast hasten
t' dogs ? "

No, but I've heard about them ; and they
won't help him much," answered Vernon, quietly.

'Garnet easy to trick un," said Abel, warningly.
" He's none so over sharp, but he's
sure."

Yernon said nothing to this ; but, after a
short pause, he bade Abel good-day very shortly,
and went downstairs. Old Sarah Wall was
standing at the door, in colloquy with some one
outside. She cried out when she felt a man's
hand on her shoulder ; and Yernon, hastily
telling her to be quiet, drew back the chain and
let himself out. He started in his turn on
finding himself face to face with Olivia Denison.
Being overwhelmed with anxiety on his account,
it was only a natural result of her girlish modesty
that she should appear freezing cold and distant
in her manner towards him, even though
her curt greeting caused him evident pain.
After the exchange of a very few indifferent
words, Yernon raised his cap stiffly and left her ;
while she, angry with him, still more angry with
herself, walked slowly down the hill, more
anxious, more miserable, on his account than
ever.

It was on the ninth day after the beginning
of his illness that Ned Mitchell, whose impatience
to be well materially retarded his recovery,
could at last bear confinement no longer, and
seized the opportunity of a short absence of
Abel's in the village to make his way once more
down to St. Cuthbert's churchyard. He wanted
to take his hounds with him, but decided that it
would be rash to do so until he was more sure
of his own powers of reaching his destination.
For he found, much to his own disgust, that he
felt weak and giddy. However, he set out on
his walk as quickly as he could, taking his way
over the fields to escape observation. Evening
was closing in  an evening in late June, warm
and balmy. He chose to set down to the
summer heat the dizziness which he felt creeping
over him long before the ruined tower of St.
Cuthbert's came in sight.

When he reached the lane which divided the
last field from the churchyard, his head swam
and he staggered across the road and caught the
gate for support. After a minute's rest, he raised

his head and looked over into the enclosure.
Was he delirious again ? Had the wild fancies
of his illness come hack to torment him? He
saw before him, instead of broken, moss-grown
headstones, rank weeds, and misshapen mounds
of earth and rubbish, a churchyard as neat and
trim as that of Eishton itself, with tombstones
set straight in the ground, well gravelled paths,
and borders of flowers. The churchyard wall
was garnished along the top with broken glass,
and two notice boards, respectively at the right
and left hand of the gate, bore these words i
Visitors are-requested not to pluck the flowers'
and " Dogs not admitted."

This last inscription reassured Ned as to the
state of his own brain. He laughed savagely to
himself, and, after a few minutes' rest, which he
spent in grim contemplation of the altered
churchyard, he turned to go home.

Whether he had "got his second wind," or
whether the rage he felt stimulated his powers,
Ned returned home much faster than he came.
Just outside the cottage gate he met Sarah Wall,

wringing her hands and muttering to herself in
deepest distress.

What's the matter with the woman ? "
asked Ned in his surliest tones.

Oh, sir ! the dogs, the dogs ! It wasn't
my fault : it wasn't indeed ! How they got out
I know no more than the bale unborn ! "

Grot out ! " shouted Ned, with fury.
What the d  . You wretched old woman !
Are they lost ? Have they got away ? "

Oh, sir, don't 'e speak like that ; don't 'e
look so ; it' wasn't my fault. Abel should have
been there to look after 'em."

Ned kept down his rage until he got out of
her what he wanted to know.

What happened, then ? Tell me at once,
quietly. Where are the dogs ? "

Oh, sir, they're in there," said the old
woman, pointing with a trembling finger to the
cottage. "And not if you was to flay me alive
could I tell you how "

But Ned did not stay to listen. He was up
the garden path and through the porch before

she could utter half a dozen words. An oath
and a howl of rage burst from his lips at the
sight which met his eyes. Stretched on the
floor of the stone passage lay the dead bodies of
the two bloodhounds, foam and blood still on
their jaws, their attitude showing that they had
expired in great agony. Ned hung over them
for a moment, touched them ; they were scarcely
cold. Then he stood bolt upright with a livid
face.

They have been poisoned ! " he whispered,
in a harsh, gurgling voice.

THE " VICARAGE " HAYMAKING.

Ned Mitchell was not the sort of man to
waste much, time in the indulgence of an outbreak
of passion. After a few minutes , contemplation
of the dead bodies of his hounds, he
pulled himself together and prepared for action.
There had flashed into his mind the recollection
of the evening on which his illness began. He
had forgotten until that moment all the details
of his arrival home, his groping about for a
light, the sounds he had heard as of a person
moving in one of the rooms, and the glimpse he
had caught of an opening door as he fell
senseless to the floor. It now occurred to him
for the first time, as he went over the small
incidents of that night one by one, that the
fall from the effects of which he was suffering
was caused by a heavy blow from some one who

had forced an entrance into the little cottage
during his absence.

A murderous blow ! " he muttered to himself
as  alone, in the dusk, with his dead
hounds encumbering the ground at his feet  he
staggered along by the walls, reproducing the
sensations he had felt just before his fall. " It
must have been in here that he was hidden," he
went on to himself, as he found himself at the
door of the room where he had first kept his
hounds. " For it was on my right hand as I
came in that I heard the noise ; I am sure of
it." Speaking' thus, slowly, to himself, he at
last turned the handle and went into the unused
room. It was musty and close, and he had to
open the windows before he could breathe freely.
He had a match-box in his pocket ; striking a
light, he examined every corner of the empty
room with the utmost care, and discovered at
last, close to the wall in a nook where the light
from the windows scarcely penetrated, two
dried-up, evil-smelling scraps of meat. "Ah! "
said he to himself. " Poisoned, of course ! And

as the first attempt wouldn't do, we had to try
again '

He removed the meat carefully from the
room, and hid it away for further examination.
Poor, trembling Mrs. Wall having by this time
returned to her place in the kitchen, he went in
and asked her, in a dry voice, if she had heard
anybody about the place in his absence.

No, sir," quavered she. " Indeed I
didn't."

You were out, of course."

"No, sir; at least, I'd only gone just halfway
down t' hill as far as t' post-office, to get ina
pound of sugar because you're out of it, sir ;
and I give you my word, sir, I'd never ha' gone
if I hadn't ha' thought as Abel was upstairs,
and"

And you came back just a minute or two
before I did?"

"Yes, sir; not so very long."

"Not long at all, or you'd have had the
whole village up here, poking and prying into
every corner, I know," said Ned, grimly. "And

when you opened the door you saw the dogs
lying as they are lying now ? "

Yes, sir."

And you've heard nobody about ? "

No, sir ; at least, no, not to-day."

Not to-day ! Then you have heard somebody
in the place since I've been ill ? "

Oh, no, sir, not nobody to matter  nobody
at all. Only one day, as I wur talking to Miss
Denison from t' Hall, as wur at t' door asking
about you, I wur pushed aside quite sudden-like
; and when I looked it wur parson
Brander."

She lowered her voice to a whisper as she
uttered the name. For, in spite of her cautious
way of putting it, Sarah Wall felt a decided
suspicion that the Yicar of St. Cuthbert's,
against whom her prejudice was strong, was at
the root of this business.

I don't know where he come from, sir,"
she croaked on, rather mysteriously. " Eut
it wasn't through t' door, for it wur on t'
chain."

Ned, having got out of her all she had to
tell, turned with an abrupt nod, left the kitchen,
and again went out into the garden. Abel
Squires, who was hobbling up the hill on his
crutch, redoubled his pace when he saw his
master at the gate.

So ye're ait, Ah see," he called out, as
soon as he was near enough. " Ah guessed how
't would be as soon as my back wur turned'

As he drew nearer he saw by his master's
face, not only that he was greatly fatigued, but
that something serious had happened.

In a few short sentences Ned told him the
events which had occurred in his absence : his
visit to St. Cuthbert's, the finding of the dogs'
bodies, and the discovery of meat which he
believed to be poisoned.

Wall tells me," said he, " that Vernon
Brander got into the place one day while I was
laid up."

Abel nodded.

Weight enough: so he did. Got in at t!
copper floor by t' water boots."

What reason did he give ? "

Wanted to know how mooch you knew.
So Ah told him. He's been going abaft like a
churchyard ghost ever since. Ah met 'un just
now on 's way op to t' Vicarage."

"To the Vicarage?"

"Ay."

Well, I'm going up there now."

And he turned and began to walk up the
hill. Abel hopped after him, assuming his most
persuasive mien.

Don't 'e, Mester Mitchell  dont 'e," he
entreated. " It's naught but cruelty to him as
hasn't done it ; an' as for him as has, you've got
plenty in store for him wi'out writing of him
now."

Ned paid not the slightest heed to these
remonstrances, but went on his way, still closely
attended by Abel the length of the Vicarage
garden wall.

Abel redoubled his pleadings as they caught
sight of the two brothers and Mrs. Brander
walking in the garden.

Look 'e here, Mester Mitchell," said lie, ina
rough voice that, plead as he would, could get
no softer. " Ah've kept away from Eishton ten
year fur to please parson Yernon, 'cause Ah'm t'
only chap as see what happened that night,
an' he wouldn't trust me to had ma tongue.
What Ah could do fur ten year, couldn't you
do fur a night."

Still Ned walked stolidly on, vouchsafing no
answer, until the party in the garden caught
sight of them, and the Vicar of Eishton came
down to the side gate to meet them. As he drew
near, Abel, after one futile attempt to drag Ned
bodily away, tried to escape himself. But Mr.
Brander was too quick and too strong for him.

Why, who have we here ? " he said
curiously, seizing Squires by the arm, and
looking into his wooden face. " Isn't it Abel
Squires, the man who picked up my father's
signet ring on the Sheffield road ? "

Ay, sir," said Abel, very bashfully, while
he persistently avoided meeting the vicar's eye.

I thought so," said the vicar, good-humouredly.

And without noticing the lowering
expression of Ned's face, he turned and shook
his hand. " Glad to see you about again, Mr.
Mitchell. I must tell you a story about our
friend here," he continued, putting a kind hand
on the tramp's shoulder. " Years ago, when I
was scarcely more than a boy, my father lost a
signet ring one night as he was returning home
from a sick bed. It was an old-fashioned thing ;
much too large for his finger. He never
expected to see it again ; but a fortnight afterwards
who should turn up but Abel Squires,
inquiring of the servants if anybody in the
house had lost a ring. He had picked it up,
and having no means of advertising his find,
had perseveringly called at house after house
on the outskirts of Sheffield where he found it,
until at last he got directed to my father as
the owner. He was so much struck by the
circumstance that he declared it should be
treasured up for ever by the head of the family
as a reminder that the world had contained at
least one ideally honest man."
F

You're t' head of t' family, yet you don't
wear it, though, parson," said Abel, glancing at
his hands.

He had listened in much confusion to the
account, changing from his wooden leg to his
sound one and back again, and looking as if the
vicar's speech contained some revelation particularly
painful for him to hear.

The vicar, who had been touched by his
excessive modesty, was surprised by this retort.

"No, I don't wear it now," he said, laughing
genially. " I did, though, until I had the misfortune
to lose it myself, some years ago. It
was too large for me, as it had been for my
father, and I never knew how it had gone. And
you were not about to find it for me."

Nay, sir," was all Abel said, with one shy
glance at the bystanders.

They had formed a strange group while the
vicar's recital lasted. Each one seemed to know
that something serious was impending, and to
listen, in silence not all attentive, to the vicar's
innocently told reminiscences. He was the only

person at ease in the little circle. Ned was
standing, stolid and square, listening to Mr.
Brander's little story with a contemptuous face ;
Vernon Brander, who seemed of late to be growing
daily more lean, more haggard, kept his eyes
fixed upon Ned with an expression of undisguised
apprehension ; while Mrs. Brander, whose great
black eyes were flashing with excitement to
which she allowed no other vent, looked steadily
from one to the other of the rest of the group, as
she stood a little away from them all, motionless
and silent, like a beautiful statue.

When the' vicar's prattle had come to an end,
there was a pause. He seemed himself to become
at last aware that the minds about him
were occupied with some more serious matter,
and he turned to Ned with a look of inquiry 

"Is anything the matter, Mr. Mitchell? " he
asked. " You look less happy than a man
should do who has just been released from the
confinement of a sick bed. Can I advise you or
counsel you in any way ? Would you like to
come into my study ? "
F 2

Ned raised his head and looked at him like a
bull in the arena.

No," he said, savagely, " the garden will
do for what I have to say. It's only this : My
bloodhounds have been poisoned "  a little
shiver of intense excitement seemed to run
through the group  "and by the same hand
that killed my sister. Now I give the man who
did both those acts till this time tomorrow to
confess publicly that he's been a great hypocrite
for ten years, with good words on his lips and
bad thoughts in his heart. But if in those four-and-twenty
hours he don't confess, then he shall
be buried at the country's expense before the
year's out."

There was dead silence after this speech,
which Ned delivered, not in his usual coarse,
loud tones, but in husky, spasmodic jerks, and
with the manner of a man bitterly in earnest.
The vicar listened with great attention; Abel
Squires seemed to wish, but not to dare, to move
away; Vernon shook from head to foot with
high nervous excitement ; while Mrs. Brander

moved to the side of her brother-in-law, and
stole her hand within his arm.

Not a look, not a movement, was lost on
Ned, whose features suddenly broke up into a
grim and horrible smile as he noted the action
of the lady. It was a smile of cunning, of
mockery. But Mr. Brander had treated him
with dislike and contempt.

"You think' said the Yicar of Eishton
at last, " that the man who poisoned your
dogs was the same who made away with your
sister?"

I don't think : I know."

I don't want to be hard on you, Mitchell.
But it seems to me that you feel the latter loss
the more acutely of the two."

"It showed," returned Ned, doggedly, "that
the fellow is no better minded now than he was
then."

You might say so if they were human
beings whose lives he had taken," said the vicar,
continuing his gentle remonstrance. " As they
were only dogs, I am inclined to take a more

lenient view; while admitting that this unknown
person  "

No, not unknown," interpolated Ned.

The vicar went on without noticing the
interruption.

 had no right either to trespass on your
premises or destroy your dogs, allowance must
be made for the state of mind of a desperate
man, who believes, rightly or wrongly, that
these animals will be used to discover his
guilt. "

Well, vicar," said Ned, who had been
staring straight into the clergyman's face with a
cynical smile, " I've said my say ; that's what I
came here for. Now it's done, I'll wish you and
your good lady, and Mr. Yernon there, a very
good-night."

The vicar held out his hand.

Good-night. You will not be offended
with me for saying that I hope Heaven will
soften your heart," he said in a low voice, in the
gentle, almost apologetic tones which he always
used when touching upon religious matters.

No, I'm not offended," said Ned, in a hard,
mocking voice.

And will you come to our hay making tomorrow?"
Mr. Brander continued in a lighter
tone. " It will be a very simple sort of festivity,
but it may serve as a change from your
hermit-like solitude and your gloomy reflections.
"

Ned bean to shake his head rather contemptuously,
muttering something rather surlily
about being " too old to pick buttercups."

Mr. Williams, of the Towers, will be here,"
went on the vicar, as pleasantly as ever. " He
is exceedingly anxious to make your acquaintance."


The expression of Ned's face changed.

Is that the Mr. Williams who has been
bothering so about repairing the old church
down there  St. Cuthbert's ? " he asked, with
affected carelessness.

And the vicar's expression changed also.

I believe he did talk about it at one time ;
but as my brother objected to it, he had

to give up the idea," he said, in a low voice,
glancing at Yernon, who was talking with Mrs.
Brander.

Ah ! " said Ned, with a look down at his
boots and a nod. " Yes, I'll come, vicar, and
thank you kindly for your invitation," he said
more graciously. " I can't make hay, but I'll be
most happy to stand about and look pretty," he
added, with a short laugh.

Raising his hat ceremoniously to Mrs.
Brander, whom he admired, and whose indifferently
concealed dislike therefore irritated
him, Ned Mitchell turned on his heel without
so much as a glance at Yernon, and made his
way down the hill to his cottage, leaning on the
arm of Abel Squires, who had bade " t' gentlefolk
" a humble and bashful farewell, and
hastened to the support of his patient, upon
whom the fatigue and excitement of the evening
had begun to tell heavily.

Solemnly and almost in silence, Meredith
Brander and his wife then parted from Yernon,
who took his lonely way over the fields in a

state of suppressed excitement so acute that on
reaching St. Cuthbert's Vicarage he was highly
feverish, with a burning head, hot, dry hands,
and a mouth that seemed parched and withered.
He lay awake for the greater part of the night.
Next morning his old housekeeper, not hearing
him rise as usual, went up to his room, and
found him in a restless, uneasy sleep. Seeing
that something was wrong with him, and deciding
that it was the result of over work, Mrs.
Warrington applied a characteristically rough-and-ready
remedy. She ransacked his wardrobe,
selecting everything that was fit to wear, and
quitted the room as softly as she had entered it,
leaving pinned to his pillow the following
note : 

"I see you have had no sleep and are unwell. So I
have taken away your clothes and locked the door. If
you are ready to promise to stay in bed all the morning,
and not to go out to-day, knock three times, and I will
bring up your breakfast."

When he woke up, Vernon gave the three
knocks, after very little hesitation. He felt so
ill that he was glad of an excuse to spend an

idle day  glad too that in this way he could
escape the ordeal of the hay making at his
brother's, and a meeting with Olivia Denison.
For, haunted as he was by the remembrance of
her gentle touch, of her softly uttered words of
sympathy as he sat beside her by Mrs. Warmington's
fireside, he felt that another cold look,
another frigid bow, like those she had given him
on their last meeting, would be a torture more
than he could bear.

Vernon Brander was far too ignorant of the
peculiarities of the feminine character to know
the significance of that coldness ; he thought
that it meant in her what it would have meant
in him, a firm determination that all sentiment
between them should be for ever at an end.
While, as every one knows, if that had been the
case she would have been gentle, tender, anxious
to soften the cruel blow she was preparing for
him, anxious also that there should, after the
parting, be a little sentiment left. As it was,
poor Olivia, on her side, was suffering a good
many torments. While never allowing herself

to believe the worst she heard against Vernon
Brander, her common sense was continually
warring with her feelings, and calling her all
sorts of unflattering names for her prejudice in
his favour. She hated and despised him, she
loved and respected him, all in a breath. She
resolved never to see him again, she determined
to encourage him in spite of all opposition, in
the course of the same day. But the value of
the former resolution may be gauged by the fact
that she made it very strongly on the morning
of the hay making, and was bitterly disappointed
when, on arriving with her father and stepmother
at the big field by the churchyard,
where the tent had been put up, she learnt from
little Kate that he had sent word to say he
could not come.

But Olivia was not to go without admirers.
Approaching the tent as she came out of it was
Fred Williams, dressed in a light grey suit of a
check so large that there was only room for one
square and a half across his narrow little chest,
a very pale brown hat, and a salmon-coloured

tie. He greeted Mr. Denison effusively, and
asked Olivia if he might get her a cup of tea.

No, thank you," said she, coldly.

But her father, surprised and displeased at
her tone, interfered.

Yes, my dear, I am sure you would like a
cup of tea," said he. " Take her to the tent,
Fred, and look after her."

Then, as the young man, who looked delighted
at her discomfiture, turned to shake
hands with her step-mother, Mr. Denison
whispered to his daughter, in as peremptory a
tone as he ever used to her 

You mustn't put on these airs, Olivia.
Young Williams is a very good fellow, and has
obliged me considerably, more than once. I
insist on your being civil to him."

Olivia turned white, and bit her lips. A
suspicion of the truth, that her father was under
monetary obligations to this wretched little
stripling, flashed into her mind. She waited
very quietly, but with a certain erect carriage of
the head which promised ill for the treatment

Fred would receive at her hands. He, however,
was not the man to be scrupulous about
the way in which he attained his ends. He
trotted beside her to the tent in a state of
great elation.

"Awfully slow, these bun scuffles, ain't
they?" he said, in his most insinuating tones.
I shouldn't have come at all if it hadn't been
for the chance of meeting  some one I wanted
to see."

This was accompanied by a most significant
look; but unfortunately Olivia, who was considerably
taller than he, was looking over his
head at some fresh arrivals.

Indeed ! " she said, absently.

Fred reddened ; that is to say, a faint tint,
like the colour in his tie, appeared for a moment
in his cheeks, and then left them as yellow as
before. He tried again. She should look at
him; it didn't matter how, but she should
look.

Those country girls look at me as if they'd
never seen anything like this get-up before.

It's the proper thing down in the south, isn't
it?"

I should think so  on Margate excursionists,"
answered Olivia, briefly.

Fred was quite unmoved.

Now what would your father say if he
heard you ? " he asked, good-humouredly.
You know he told you to be civil. Ho, yes,
I've sharp ears enough  always catch up anything
I want to hear."

Olivia said nothing to this, and presently he
went on, in a persuasive tone 

You know it's worse than wasting your
time to be rude to me, because I'm not a bad
chap to people I like, and to people I don't like
I can do awfully nasty turns."

Oh, I don't doubt your power of making
yourself unpleasant," said Olivia, quietly.

Still Fred Williams only chuckled. They
had by this time reached the tent, and he gave
her a chair with a flourish of satisfaction.

There, now you must look up to me to fire
off your spiteful little shots, instead of down at

me as if I were a worm or a beetle. It's not
many men of my size, mind you, that would
walk with a girl as tall as you ; it puts a fellow
at a disadvantage. And as your six-fosters are
not too plentiful in these parts, it would be wiser
of you to make your peace with the little ones."

I assure you," said Olivia, looking up at
him gravely, " that I could get on very well
without either six-fosters or four-feet-sixers."

That's a nasty cut. There's not many fellows
would stand that' said the irrepressible
one. " But, there, I tell you there's nothing I
wouldn't put up with from you. I suppose you
won't insult my guv'nor if I introduce him to
you," he continued, glancing towards a corner of
the tent where the elder Mr. Williams was engaged
in animated talk with Ned Mitchell.

Certainly not ; " answered Olivia, " I am
told by every one that you could scarcely be
known for father and son."

This was true. Mr. Williams, though he
was not free from the faults of the parvenu,
was ostentatious in his charities and respectful

towards wealth, had a handsome person and a
dignified carriage, and was in every way his
son's superior. He had been most anxious to
make Ned Mitchell's acquaintance, feeling that
in this man, who had begun with little and by
his own exertions had made it much, he should
meet with a congenial nature. And so it proved.
Ned having the same feeling towards him, they
had become, at their first interview, if not friends,
at least mutually well-disposed acquaintances.

When Fred interrupted their tete-astute, they
were deep in a conversation they found so interesting
that Mr. Williams, in reply to his son's
request that he would come and be introduced
to a lady, waved him away, saying, u Presently,
my boy, presently."

He came back, laughing at his father's
earnestness.

He and that colonist fellow are so thick
already that there's no separation' 'em," he said
to Olivia. " They're at it, hammer and tongs,
about the old tower down at St. Cuthbert's, and
as the vicar has just come and shoved his little

oar in, I expect they'll be at it till breakfast
time."

"The tower of St. Cuthbert's ! " exclaimed
Olivia, rising hastily from her chair. " What
are they saying about that ? "

Fred, who noticed everything, saw how keen
was the interest she showed.

Yes. You know my guv'nor was hot on
building a new tower to the place, and paying
for the repair of it. He likes things brand new,
does the guv'nor, and he likes tablets and paragraphs
with ' Ee-erected by the generosity of
F. S. Williams, Esquire, of the Tower's, on 'em.
And he was put off it, I don't exactly know how.
So Mitchell's working him up to it again."

Since your father won't come to me, you
shall take me to him," said Olivia, brightly,
though her lips were quivering.

Fred, still watching her carefully, noticed
this also. As they crossed the floor of the
tent, he could see that she was straining her
ears to catch what she could of the talk of the
three men. For Mr. Meredith Brander had now
G

joined the other two, and was taking the chief
share of the subject under discussion. This was
no longer St. Cuthbert's Tower, but the recent
loss which the colonist had sustained by the
poisoning of his hounds.

My own impression," the vicar was saying,
in tones of conviction, " is that you must have
caused their death yourself during your sleep."

How do you make that out, vicar ? " asked
Ned, very quietly.

Since that outburst of fury the evening
before, he had been very subdued  almost
amiable.

Why, I cannot conceive any motive strong
enough to induce anybody else to make away
with them. If they were really dangerous to
some one's secret, poisoning them was too suspicious
an act. Besides, my brother  I mean
the churchyard of St. Cuthbert's has just been
laid out as a garden, and the wall has been
fringed with broken glass to keep out all unauthorised
intruders. Now what could a man
kill your dogs f or ? "

I have my own ideas as to the reason,"
said Xed. Then, after a short pause, he added,
You see, the poisoning of the hounds led to
a delay. Now a hunted criminal lives by
delays."

Hunted criminal ! " Poor Olivia echoed
these terrible words below her breath. The
very sound of them blanched her cheeks and
seemed to check the beating of her heart.

It was again Ned who spoke 

Tell me, vicar, what you mean by suggesting
that I poisoned my hounds in my sleep."

Don't you know," said Mr. Brander, " how
an active man forced into inaction will brood
over an idea until it is never out of his brain ?
I imagine that you, moved as you certainly were
by fears for the safety of your dogs while you
were ill, got these fears so strongly in your mind
that at last you got up one night, and with your
own hands did what it was always in your mind
that some one else would do  laid about the
poison which the dogs took as soon as they by
some means got loose."
G 2

Dear me ! Very ingenious theory  very
ingenious ! " said Mr. Williams.

I don't suppose," went on the vicar,
modestly, " that the idea would have come into
my head if it had not been that in my own
family there have been marvellous instances of
somnambulism. An ancestor of mine, a very
energetic man who loved the sound of his own
voice, had been ordered a rest from preaching
by his doctor. Well, I assure you that after
obeying this injunction three months, he got up
one night, got the church keys, let himself in,
and was discovered there by his wife in the
pulpit, preaching a sermon in his dressing-gown
and slippers ! And there have been numberless
other instances in our family  some within this
century."

Dear me, that is singular indeed," said Mr.
Williams.

A very high-spirited family yours, vicar,"
said Ned, who had not moved a muscle during
this recital, "and the spirit is sure to peep out
sooner or later. You, I think, though you'll

excuse my saying so, are about the only one
of the bunch that hasn't let it peep out rather
discreditably."

Perhaps my sins are all to come," said the
vicar with a jolly laugh.

And, catching sight of the two young people
who were waiting for a hearing, Mr. Brander
himself introduced Olivia Denison to old Mr.
Williams, and left the group to join his other
guests.

NED Mitchell PROMISE.

The hay making in the glebe field of Ashton
Vicarage was an annual affair, an institution of
Meredith Brander's own, dating from the young
days of his reign. It had been at its origin a
thoroughly radical institution, a freak of the
then very youthful vicar, who had not yet quite
dropped all the wild ideas for the reconstruction
of society of his university days. Rich and
poor, gentle and simple, an invitation had been
extended to all ; the glebe field was to be the
scene of such an harmonious commingling of class
and class as had not been dreamed of since the
dim days of Feudalism. For a year or two both
the villagers and the richer class were represented
; the former sparsely, it is true. But
there was no commingling. Then the villagers,
not quite understanding the vicar's idea, began
to have a suspicion that, besides being somewhat

bored and bewildered by the entertainment
and the necessity for putting on "company
manners," they were being laughed at ; and
thenceforth they stayed away altogether. So
that the annual hay making had now become
what Mr. Brander called " a mere commonplace
omnium gather umy where the lowest class represented
was that of the well-to-do farmers, whose
wives and daughters having replaced the straightforward
rusticity of half a century ago for a
veneer of fashion and refinement, were tiresome
guests, captious, self-assertive, and intolerable.

Among the most prominent members of
this last class were the two daughters of John
Oldshaw. Despising their shy, good-hearted
brother Mat as much as they did their coarse-mannered
father, they prattled of Gilbert and
Sullivan's last opera, of the newest shape of
sunshade, of the most recently published novel,
uneasily anxious to show that they were abreast
of the times. They hated Olivia Denison for
her easy superiority ; and while indignant with
their brother for admiring her, they were still

more indignant at the knowledge that he was
too much her inferior for her to treat him with
anything but kindness.

Olivia, who was always so scrupulously
courteous to these young ladies, shook hands
with them as she left the tent with her persistent
admirer, Fred Williams, who, with little
attempt at concealment, tried to draw her away
from the farmer's daughters.

"How charming Mrs. Brander is looking
to-day ! " said the elder, in the loud, unpleasant
voice which shivered in a moment all her pretensions
to refinement. " She reminds me
more of Lady Grisdale every time I see
her."

Lady Grisdale was a fashionable beauty,
whose photograph, together with those of the
Guernsey Rose and Mrs. Carnage East, adorned
Miss Oldshaw's drawing-room mantelpiece in a
plush frame.

Yes," assented Olivia, " she is like the
portraits of Lady Grisdale. How is your
brother ? Isn't he coming here to-day ? "

The Misses Oldshaw disliked any allusion to
their brother, who, they considered, did them
little credit. And to hear him mentioned by
Olivia Denison was especially galling. It
seemed to them to signify what indeed was the
truth, that she ranked Mat, with his rough
speech and shy, awkward ways, above themselves,
with all their pretensions. Miss Oldshaw
therefore answered with a shrill tartness which
surprised Olivia, who had certainly no wish to
offend her 

Oh, he's not coming here. His tastes
don't lie in the direction of either nice people or
nice amusements."

Indeed ! I should have thought they would,
when he's so nice himself."

Oh, of course niceness is a matter of taste,"
said Miss Oldshaw, with an affected laugh.
"Perhaps you would consider the person he has
gone to see nice."

Very likely," said Olivia, coolly.

Dear me," interrupted the second sister,
with a perceptible sneer ; " you forget that Mr.

Vernon Brander may be a friend of Miss
Denison's."

"If it is Mr. Vernon Brander whom Mat
has gone to see, I don't think he has chosen his
pleasure badly. At least he is in pleasant
society than we all have the fortune to meet
here."

And Olivia, who had remained very quiet
during this disagreeable colloquy, turned away,
while her companion burst into a loud fit of
laughter, and glancing over his shoulder at the
sisters, remarked in a voice which they were intended
to hear 

Why does Mrs. Brander invite those
people ? Everybody knows they were both
sweet on Parson Boniface until they found it
was no go."

Olivia made no answer to this graceful
remark. She was standing close to the hedge
which bounded the field on the side nearest to
the village. The trees grew thickly outside, and
even at five o'clock the sun was strong enough
to make the shelter of the overhanging branches

welcome. The devoted Fred had put into her
hands a very fanciful little hayrake ; but instead
of amusing herself by turning over the sweet-scented
hay which strewed the field all round
her, she only drew the rake listlessly along the
ground with an air of being a thousand miles
away.

I'm afraid I bore you," said Fred at last,
in an offended tone, finding that all his conversational
efforts failed to wake the least
sparkle of interest in her eyes ; "I should have
thought this sort of thing would have been
just what you would like : wants such a lot of
energy, and all that sort of thing, you
know."

"Yes," answered Olivia, dream ingle ; "it
wants too much energy to be wasted on play,
when one has serious things to think about."

Serious things ! " echoed Fred, pricking up
his ears, and rushing at this opening. "Yes,
I've got a lot of serious things to think about
too  one thing jolly serious. I say," he went
on, getting rather nervous, " I'm glad you take

tidings seriously; I like a girl who can be
serious. "

Do you ? " asked she, rather absently. " I
should have thought you liked a girl who could
be lively."

Well, yes ; I like 'em both. I mean, I
like one who can be both  or, or  "

Both who can be one, perhaps," suggested
Olivia, laughing.

She had had to stave off proposals before
from men whom she was anxious to save from
unnecessary pain. But with this grotesque
little caricature of an admirer she felt no sentiment
deeper than a hope that he would not be
silly. Insignificant as he seemed to her, however,
she made a great mistake in despising him,
and in forgetting that a small, mean nature is
very much more dangerous than a nobler one.
So that while she was innocently trying to avoid
the annoyance of his love-making with light
words and laughter, he was growing every
moment more doggedly bent on doing her the
honour of making known his admiration,

Although the possibility of a refusal had not
occurred to him, he felt nervous, as he would
have felt with no other woman.

I say, now, be serious a moment, can't
you ? Or I shall think I paid you too great a
compliment just now."

As I am not used to compliments, perhaps
it got into my head."

Oh, of course I know you have had plenty
of fools dangling about you and saying a lot of
things they don't mean  "

So that one more or less hardly counts,"
suggested-olivia, laughing.

He would not be angry even then. He
thought if he affected to drop the subject he
should soon bring her to reason ; so he said,
Oh, well, of course, if that's your way of
looking at it, there's no more to be said."

But she took him at his word, and, with justa
nod of assent to his last remark, ran to the
hedge, with a cry, " There's Mat ! " as she
caught sight of Farmer Oldshaw's son standing
under the trees.

Fred Williams looked after her with an ugly
expression on his little yellow face.

Fancy my not being common enough for
her, by Jove ! " was his modest reflection as he
saw her shake hands heartily with the young
man.

Olivia, with a woman's quick perception, had
known at once that Mat had something of importance
to tell her.

What is it, Mat ? " she asked, anxiously,
as they shook hands.

Mester Yernon : he's very bad wi' t' fever,"
said he, in a low voice. "Ah allers waite at
corner o' t' long meadow o' Thursday, an' walk
wi' him as far as Lower Copse, where he goes
to 's meeting. An' to-day he didn't coom, so
Ah knew summit wur wrong, an' Ah went
to 's home, an' Ah saw him. An' Ah thowt
Ah'd let ye know, Miss Olivia, so Ah coom hereto
tell ye."

Olivia had very little shyness with Mat ; he
knew her secret, and he, too, loved Yernon
Brander most loyally. She thanked him in very

few words, but with a look of gratitude in her
eyes which stirred in the young man feelings of
pain and pleasure she never guessed at.

I shall manage to get away in a few
minutes," she said.

If you're going' to see Mester Yernon, you'll
let me see ye sease across t' fields ? "

Yes ; I shall be very glad if you will."

With the rapidity of a butterfly, in order to
avoid the unlucky Fred Williams, Olivia sped
across the scattered hay to the tent where she
had left Ned Mitchell and Mr. Williams the
elder. They were conversing as earnestly as
ever, and certain words which fell upon the girl's
ears as she stood waiting for a chance of catching
Ned's attention showed that they were still on
the old subject.

You will scarcely believe me, Mr. Mitchell,
when I assure you that nothing but the dissuasions
of Mr. Meredith Brander and his
brother have prevented my doing it long before.
However, I have made up my mind not
to put up with this sort of thing any longer. I

have no doubt their motives were good  perfectly
good. But they are certainly mistaken
in letting a private fad for antiquities interfere
with the comfort of the parishioners. "

And they won't find on every bush a
parishioner rich enough and generous enough to
rebuild a church at his own expense," added Ned.

Oh, well, perhaps not," allowed Mr.
Williams, modestly. "Anyhow, I'll get Lord
Stannington's permission at once, and the new
St. Cuthbert's tower shall be an object of admiration
in the neighbourhood before the winter
comes."

Ned Mitchell was satisfied; he had sowed
the seed well. Having now leisure to look
round him, he perceived that Olivia, standing
by herself, with her eyes fixed earnestly upon
him, was waiting for speech with him. With
her feminine grace, her high spirit and her
devotion, she was a girl after his own heart;
what little of amiability there was in his character
always appeared in his face and manner
when he addressed her.

"Oh, Mr. Mitchell' she said, in a low,
pleading voice, as he nodded to Mr. Williams
and walked out of the tent with her, " I want to
ask you not to be hard."

Too late  too late by fifteen years, Miss
Denison," said he, not harshly, however. " But
what particular proof of hardness have I given
you just now? "

"You know," said she, tremulously; "the
new tower  St. Cuthbert's tower   "

Ned Mitchell stopped short, and made her
turn face to face with him.

It seems to me, young lady," said he, " that
you haven't much faith in your lover."

Mr. Yernon Brander is not my lover," said
she, blushing.

Not to the extent of having asked you to
name the happy day, perhaps. But whether
you confess it or not, I know that if Yernon
Brander were free to many, he might have you
for the asking."

"Well, yes, he might," said poor Olivia,
raising her head proudly one moment, and the
H

next letting it fall in confusion and shame.
And I confess I don't feel sure whether he has
done this dreadful thing or not; and  and that
it wouldn't make any difference if he had. And
it's because I don't feel sure that I'm come to
beg you not to have St. Cuthbert's tower
touched. And I've just heard that he's ill, and
I'm very miserable about it. There, there  now
I think I've humiliated myself enough to
you."

They were in the open field, with young
men and maidens on either side making more or
less shallow pretences at hay making. Olivia
could not indulge the inclination that prompted
her to burst into a rage of passionate tears. But
she was almost blinded by the effort to keep
them back ; and Ned Mitchell had to guide her
steps between the haycocks, which he did gently
enough.

Look here," he said, in a voice which could
only express feeling by jerks ; "I don't want to
hurt you. There's nobody I wouldn't sooner
hurt, I think. You're a brave girl. I like you.

I approve of you. Hold your tongue, and I'll
promise you something."

The last admonition was unnecessary ; she
was quiet enough.

I give you my word. Now, mind, you're
not to shout out'' She shook her head. " I
give you my word no harm shall come to  somebody."


"Mr. Vernon Brander?" she asked, in a
whisper.

"Yes."

Oh, Mr. Mitchell, you are good, then, after
all ! " she said, with naive earnestness and gratitude.


Don't be too sure of that. But I do keep
my word. He's ill, you say ? "

Mat Oldshaw has just told me that he is
in a fever."

And you are going to see him ? What
would your father say ? "

I can't help it. I must  I must. He has
no friends to visit him."

Oh, yes, he has. Mark my words : as soon
H 2

as she bears of it, his sister-in-law will fly to
his side."

Olivia seemed to shrink into herself with a
shiver at these words. Her warm-hearted outburst
of grateful confidence was over.

What do you mean to imply ? " she asked,
coldly.

"Nothing  nothing but just what I say.
You may tell Vernon that I am coming this
evening to look after him. Here you are. You
can slip through this gate and be off under the
trees and down through the village. And I'll
make up a story for your step-mother."

He opened the gate for her, and let her
through. Olivia scarcely dared to believe that
he would keep his promise of doing no harm to
Vernon ; still, his kindness to herself was encouraging,
and, in spite of doubts and fears,
pangs of jealousy of Mrs. Meredith, self-reproach
for acting against her father's wishes, Olivia felt
lighter hearted since Ned Mitchell's promise,
and congratulated herself, as she approached St.
Cuthbert's Vicarage, and bade good-bye to

faithful Mat, that she was the bearer of good
news.

Her heart beat fast as she went up the stone
pathway of the barren enclosure before the house.
In answer to her knock, Mrs. Warmington
opened the door, and uttered a short exclamation,
whether of surprise, joy, or astonishment, the
visitor could not tell.

So that's the answer to the conundrum ! "
was her rather bewildering greeting.

Is Mr. Yernon Brander at home ? " asked
Olivia, with some dignity.

But Mrs. Warmington would have none of it.

Oh, yes, you know he is," she answered,
impatiently. " And, what's more, you know
he's ill. And he knows you are coming, and
of course that's the reason why he wouldn't go
back to bed, when he knows as well as I do that
bed's the place where he ought to be."

If he does expect me, it's only guesswork,"
said Olivia, more softly. " For I've
sent him no message, and he has sent me
none."

Oh, the air carries messages between some
people," said Mrs. Warmington, impatiently.

Who is that?" asked Vernon Brander's
voice from the front room.

It is I, Mr. Brander," answered Olivia, ina
very meek, small voice.

She opened the door and entered, shyly, with
a prim little speech upon her lips, something
about " so many inquiries having been made
for him that she had offered to come and learn
how he was." But she only got out a few
words and stopped. He was still standing by
the door, and she had not yet looked at him.
When she modestly raised her eyes, she read
in his face such feelings as put her pretty platitudes
to flight.

"Oh ! " she said, softly, and clasped her
hands, while her lips quivered and her eyes
filled. But she instantly recovered herself and
became very stately and stiff.

Come and sit down," said he ; and, closing
the door, he took her hands in both his, and led
her to a battered arm-chair, which stood beside

the worn old sofa from which he had just
risen.

Olivia allowed herself to be led to the chair,
on which she sat down with some constraint.
Mr. Brander took an ordinary cane-seated chair
at the other side of the table. There was a
silence of some moments. Then the girl spoke.

I am glad you were not at the haymaking
this afternoon, Mr. Brander. The sun was so
hot, even up to the time I left, that it was
quite as much as we could do to breathe, without
the fatigue of making hay."

She did not look at him while she spoke ;
but as he only said " Yes " in a very faint
voice, she slowly turned her head and saw that
he was swaying on the table, ashy white and
breathing heavily. All her shyness and constraint
broke down in a second. She started up,
and running lightly round the table, put a
strong, supporting arm around him.

Come to the sofa," she said, gently. " You
are not well enough to sit up."

For answer he laid his head against her

shoulder, and looked rapturously into her beautiful
face.

I don't feel ill," was all he dared to
say.

Olivia blushed, but did not withdraw her
arm.

That is all nonsense," she said, imperiously.
" You are ill, and I believe you want a
doctor, and I mean to fetch one. I'm turning
nurse to the parish," she went on, merrily ;
you know it was I who got the doctor for Mr.
Mitchell."

Vernon's face clouded.

Yes ; I know," said he.

Oh, Mr. Brander," continued Olivia, beginning
to stammer and hesitate. " I  I have
something to tell you about Mr. Mitchell :
something he said  to me, this afternoon."

Well, what was it ? "

They were talking  he and old Mr. "Williams
 this afternoon, about the restoration of 
of "

Of St. Cuthbert's tower ? "

Yes. Mr. Mitchell was persuading him to
build a new tower "

Persuading him ! Clever old fox ! There's
a proverb about cheating the devil, but I think
it would be stronger to talk of cheating Ned
Mitchell."

Olivia was surprised by the Coolness with
which he said this. However, she hastened to
add

But I don't think it will be rebuilt after
all."

It seemed to her that something very like a
shade of disappointment crossed his face at these
words.

How is that ? " was all he said.

I spoke to Mr. Mitchell afterwards, and he
promised me never to do anything to harm you,"
said Olivia, in a gentle earnest voice, quite ignoring,
in the excitement of this announcement,
how much of her own feelings she was betraying.

Then you think," said he, very quietly,
that the building of a new tower at St.
Cuthbert's would do me harm ? "

I  I thought," said Olivia, much confused,
from what T had heard, that you did not wish
it to be rebuilt."

"And I suppose you must have some idea
why?"

No," answered Olivia, quickly.

Quite sure ? "

Of course I have heard what people say."

If I were a wholly innocent man, how
could any discoveries which might be made hurt
me?"

I don't know ; I should have thought
perhaps they might."

I can see that your mind is not free from
doubts ? "

No answer. He was leaning against her,
and speaking with difficulty.

And yet you love me all the same ? "

The question burst from his lips in a low,
husky, passionate whisper, while his eyes sought
hers, and his hand trembled at the contact with
her fingers. Tor answer she flung her right arm
round his neck, and pressed her lips tenderly,

fervently on his pale forehead. He shivered in
her arms as if seized by a strong convulsion of
feeling; then, by a feverish effort tearing himself
from her embrace, he leaned against the
mantelpiece and buried his face in his hands,
murmuring, in a hoarse and broken voice 

God bless you ! And God forgive me ! "

Olivia's whole heart went out to him in the
deep distress from which he was evidently suffering.
She rose, and coming to within a few
paces of where he stood, said, most winningly 

Come and lie down on the sofa. I will
read to you, sing to you, do anything you
would like done ; but you must not stand ; you
are not well enough."

He held out his hand to her with a smile
that made his haggard face for a moment handsome.


I will do whatever you wish," he said, " if
you will in return do something I am going to
command."

What is that ? " she asked with a smile.

Go back home at once. You are here

against your father's wishes, and I am bound in
honour to forbid your presence here."

He had already withdrawn his hand from
hers j he dared not trust it to remain there.
There was a yearning in his eyes which stirred
all the pity, all the tenderness, in her nature for
this outcast from love and home and happiness.
She tried to take his pathetic command with a
laugh, as he had tried to give it. But she
failed, as he had done. And so they stood, with
only a yard of faded and worn old carpet between
them, reading in each other's eyes the
longing, she to comfort and he to caress, while
the sunset faded slowly outside, and the old
clock ticked, on the mantelpiece, and faint sounds
of the clattering of cups and spoons came from
the kitchen.

There is some one at the gate," said he at
last. And he crossed to the window and looked
out: " Ned Mitchell ! "

Olivia started. She was glad Ned had come
while she was there, being anxious to note how
he met Yernon.

Come straight in," called out Vernon from
the window.

And Ned came in, with his ponderous walk
and keen glance. He nodded to Olivia, and
walking straight up to Vernon, examined him
attentively.

"So you're on the sick list, I hear," he said,
not unkindly. "By the look of you I should say
you'll be on the burial list soon if you don't take
care of yourself."

Olivia uttered a low cry of horror.

You want a wife to look after you. Some
men can get on best without a woman; I'm one:
that's why I'm married. Some can't get on
without one; you're one of that sort : that's why
you're a bachelor. One of the dodges of Providence
to keep us from growing too fond of this
precious world, I suppose."

Well, as I choose to mortify the flesh by
remaining a bachelor, it's unkind of you to
throw my misfortune in my face, isn't it ? " said
Vernon, not succeeding very well in the effort to
speak in his usual manner.

Sit down, man," said Ned, peremptorily.
You ought to be in bed. On the other hand,
if you knock off your work, who's to do it for
you?"

"Nobody; there is nobody; therefore I must
not knock off," said Yernon, feverishly.

Oh, yes, you must. Health's everything,"
said Ned, with his small, sharp eyes fixed on the
floor. " Now I've a proposal to make to you.
There's not much of a parson's work a rough
man like me can do, but there's some, taking
messages and seeing people and things like that.
Now it's precious dull up at my hole of a
cottage. So I'm coming to stay a day or two
with you, and your old woman can put me up
in the little room that's next to your bedroom.
It's all settled, you understand," he added, lifting
his hand and raising his voice peremptorily
at the same time.

It's awfully good of you," said Yernon,
though his tone betrayed more curiosity than
gratitude. " But, at any rate, if you choose to
stay here, you shall have the best bedroom we

can offer you. The little box next to mine is
filled with nothing but lumber."

That's the room I mean to have, though,"
said Ned, stubbornly. " I'm of a romantic and
melancholy disposition, and I like the view. It
looks out into the churchyard."

The curiosity died out suddenly from
Vernon's face.

"And if I am compelled to assure you
that it is impossible that room should be
used?"

Then I shall have to come and encamp in
the neighbourhood : that's all."

The men looked straight at each other, and
Vernon shrugged his shoulders.

You can come if you like," said he, indifferently.


Olivia, who had listened with much interest
to this discussion, now came forward to bid
Vernon good-bye. Ned, with ostentatious discreetness,
tramped heavily to the window, and
looked out. But he might have spared himself
the trouble ; for before he got there the ceremony

of farewell was over. Olivia had put her hand
in Vernon's, and they had given a brief look
each into the face of the other. Ned, as he
stared into the bare enclosure outside, suddenly
felt a light touch on his arm.

"Good-bye, Mr. Mitchell," said Olivia.
Don't forget  your promise."

I never forget anything," said Ned,
drily.

The next minute she was hurrying up the
lane, with the eyes of both men fixed upon her
retreating figure.

That's a good sort," said Ned, approvingly.

To this Vernon Brander assented very
shortly.

Olivia had forbidden Mat to wait for her,
but she was not to go home unescorted. At the
top of the hill, where the lane joined the highroad,
she found the irrepressible Fred Williams
sitting on a bank, making passes at a white
butterfly with his walking stick. Olivia uttered
an " Oh ! " full of impatience and disgust. Fred
got up, grinning at her in obtuse admiration.

"I knew where you'd gone," he said, nodding
with a knowing air. "So I came to see you
home."

He was still rather nervous, which was perhaps
the reason why he failed to perceive the
full extent of her annoyance at this second
meeting. He had, besides, primed himself
for a speech, and that speech he meant to
make.

We were interrupted just now in the hay-field,"
he began  "just when I was on the
point of  "

Oh, never mind now," broke in Olivia,
impatiently, " I have something to think
about."

Well, what I am going to say to you don't
require thinking about ; I want you to marry
me. Yes or no."

No ! " said Olivia, promptly.

"Of course I knew you'd say that first go
off. But let me reason with you a little. You
must get married some time. You like another
fellow better than me  "
I

I do  a good many other fellows ! "

"Well, but one in particular. Now you
can't have him, and you can have me. And if
you do have me, you can do a good turn to the
other fellow."

What do you mean ? " asked the girl, turning
white at the young man's tone.

If you'll promise to marry me  seriously,
mind  I'll persuade my father not to
build the new tower to St. Cuthbert's.
Nobody but me can stop him. That chap
Mitchell is egging him on to it with all his
might."

"He's changed his mind," said Olivia,
quietly.

Oh, has he ? Since when, I should like to
know? He met me sitting here five minutes
ago, on his way down to St. Cuthbert's,
where you've just come from" (with another
knowing nod), " and he gave me this note
for my father. I opened it. Won't you read
it? All right, but you shall hear what it
says."

Fred was holding a part of an old envelope,
which had been scribbled on in pencil, and
folded. He read it aloud : 

Dear Mr. Williams,  Hurry on the re-building of
St. Cuthbert's Tower as fast as you can. I hear there is a
proposal afloat to be beforehand with you, and to deprive
you of all the credit of the thing by getting it up by subscription.
 Yours, E. Mitchell."

Poor Olivia was aghast at Ned's breach of
faith, but she affected unconcern.

I don't see how the building of St. Cuthbert's
tower can affect either me or Mr. Vernon
Brander."

Nor do I. But I can see it does. Anyhow,
I'll give you till tomorrow morning to
consider the thing, and I'll meet you in the
poultry run when you feed the chickens  if I
can get up early enough. And as I see you
want to think over it by yourself, I'll take myself
off for the present. Good-evening, Miss
Denison."

He sauntered away in the opposite direction
to Ashton, his mischievous good humour
/ 2

perfectly undisturbed ; while Olivia, more concerned
for Mr. Vernon Brander than ever,
hurried home, and sneaked up to her room to
consider the new position of affairs, and to write
a pleading note to Ned Mitchell.

A MIDNIGHT VISITOR.

Olivia Denison's thoughts, on the morning
after the hay making, were entirely occupied
with Yernon Brander, his illness, the possibility
of his innocence, and the chances of his escape
if guilty ; so that when, on entering the poultry-yard
with her basket on her arm, she found
Fred Williams . amusing himself by setting
two cocks to fight each other, she uttered a
cry of unmistakable annoyance and astonishment.


You look as if you hadn't expected to
see me, and as if, by Jove, you hadn't wanted
to ! " said he, frankly. As she made no answer,
but only raised her eyebrows, he went on 
Don't you remember I said I should be here
this morning ? "

I had forgotten it, or only remembered it
as a kind of nightmare."

"Do you mean me to take your rudeness
seriously ? " asked Fred, after a pause, in which
he had at last struggled with the amazing fact
that he had met a girl to whom his admiration,
and all the glorious possibilities it conveyed,
meant absolutely nothing.

As seriously as I have always taken
yours."

Fred was silent again for some moments,
during which Olivia went on throwing handfuls
of grain to the chickens, and calling softly
Coop-coop-coop-coop ! " in a most persuasive
and unconcerned manner.

And you really mean that this is your
last answer ? I can tell you, it's your last chance
with me."

Olivia turned, making the most of her
majestic height, and looked down on him with
the loftiest disdain.

I assure you that if it were my ' last
chance as you call it, not only with you, but
with anybody, I should say just the same."
Fred Williams leaned against the wall of

the yard, turned out the heterogeneous contents
of one of his pockets, and began turning
them over with shaking fingers to hide his
mortification.

Still Olivia went on with her occupation,
without paying the slightest attention to him.
Suddenly the rejected suitor shovelled all the
things he had taken out back into his pockets,
and with a monkey-like spring placed himself
right in front of her.

I wish there was somebody about to tell
you what a jolly fool you're making of yourself,"
he said, looking up at her rather viciously.

You may go and fetch somebody to do soif
you like," said she, serenely.

And leave you in peace for a little while, I
suppose you mean ? "

Perhaps some such thought may have
crossed my mind."

Mr. Fred Williams had not a high opinion
of himself, but experience had taught him that
his " expectations " gave him an adventitious
value ; to find neither his modesty nor his

money of any avail was a discovery which
destroyed for once his habitual good-humour,
and showed a side of his character which he
should by all means have kept concealed from a
lady he wished to charm.

Very well," he snarled, while an ugly
blush spread over his face, and his fingers
twitched with anger; "very well. You may
think it very smart to snub me, and high-spirited
and all that. I've stood a good deal of it 
a good deal more than I'd have stood from
anybody else  because you're handsome. I
know I'm not handsome, or refined either ; but
I don't pretend to be. And I'm a lot handsomer
than the hatchet-faced parson, anyhow. And as
for refinement, you can get a lot more for
twenty-five thousand a year than for a couple of
hundred, which is quite a decent screw for one
of your preaching fellows. But now I've done
with you, I tell you ; I've done with you."

Isn't that rather a singular expression, considering
that I've never given you the slightest
encouragement? " asked Olivia, coldly.

"Encouragement! I don't expect encouragement
; but I expect a girl like you to know a
good thing when she sees it."

I am afraid we differ as to what constitutes
a ' good thing.

"Very likely; but we shan't ' differ as to
what constitutes ' a bad thing for Vernon
Brander; and if you don't see all those twopenny
geraniums pulled up out of St. Cuthbert's
churchyard, and every stone grubbed up, and
every brick of that old tower pulled down,
before another week's up, my name's not Fred
Williams. There, Miss Denison ; now, what do
you say to that ? "

I say that you have fully justified your low
opinion of yourself."

And I'll justify my low opinion of Vernon
Brander. If he's got any secrets buried in
those old stones, we'll have them dragged
out, and make you jolly well ashamed of your
friend."

Oh, no, you won't do that," said Olivia,
who had turned pale to the lips, and grown very

majestic and stern ; " though you have succeeded
in making me ashamed of having called you
even an acquaintance."

Perhaps you have a weakness for "

Before he could finish his sentence, he
found himself seized by the shoulders, and saw
towering over him a beautiful countenance, so
aglow with passionate indignation that it looked
like the face of a Fury.

If you dare to say that word I'll shake
you like a rat ! " hissed out Olivia, giving
him an earnest of her promise with great goodwill.


Stop ! stop ! unless you  want  to  kill
somebody  to be more  like  your  precious
friend," panted Fred, who was not a
coward.

Olivia let him go with a movement which
sent him spinning among the chickens.

Well, that's cool," panted he, as he picked
up his hat and looked at it ruefully. " You
talk about refinement one minute, and the next
you treat me in this unladylike way ! "

Oh, I apologise for my vulgar manners,"
laughed Olivia, who was already rather ashamed
of her outbreak. " I'm only a farmer's daughter,
you know."

Yes, and you couldn't give yourself more
airs if you were a duchess. Your father isn't so
proud by a long way, I can tell you," he added,
with meaning.

Olivia became in an instant very quiet.

What do you mean? " she asked, sternly.

Oh, nothing but that he's been in the
habit of borrowing money of me for some time ;
only trifling sums, but still they seemed to
come in handy, judging by the way he thanked
me."

He was disappointed to see that Olivia took
this information without any of the tragic airs
he had expected.

I daresay they did," said she. " We are
not too well off, as everybody knows."

The simplicity with which she uttered these
words made the young man feel at last rather
ashamed of himself.

Of course, I know he'll pay me back,"
he said, hastily.

Olivia opened her great proud eyes, full of
astonishment and disdain, and said, superbly,
Of course he will ! "

And you don't feel annoyed at the obligation,
eh ? " asked Fred, rather bewildered.

"I don't see any obligation," said she,
quietly.

Oh, don't you ? Well, most people would
consider it one."

How much does he owe you ? "

Oh, only a matter of forty or fifty
pounds."

He thought the amount would astonish and
distress her ; but as, apparently, it failed to do
either, he hastened to add 

Of course, that's a mere nothing ; but
he let me know, a day or two ago, that he
should want a much larger loan, and of course
I informed him he could have it for the
asking."

She did wince at that; but the manner in

which she resented his impertinence was scarcely
to his taste.

"And yon think the obligation is on outside
? " she said, sweetly, bnt with a tremor of
subdued anger in her voice. " What have you
done, except to lend my father a few pounds
which you would never have missed, even if you
had thrown them into a well, instead of lent
them to an honourable man? While he, by
accepting the loan, has given you a chance of
putting on patronising airs towards a man in
every respect your superior."

All right  all right ! Gro on ! Yernon
Brander shall pay for this ! " snarled Fred, at
last rendered thoroughly savage by her contempt.

"Yernon Brander will never be the worse
for having you for an enemy. I should be
sorry for him if you were his friend," she said,
defiantly.

Oh, all right, I'm glad to hear it," said
Fred, glad at last to beat a retreat, and delivering
his parting words at the gate of the
poultry-yard, with one foot in the new-laid egg

basket. " Then if anything unpleasant happens
to your father or your parson through me, you'll
be able to make light of it ! "

Olivia felt rather frightened when she saw
how discoloured and distorted with rage his
little weasel's face had become. But she bore a
brave front, and only said, for all reply to his
threats 

Won't you find it more convenient to
stand on the ground, Mr. Williams? To walk
about among eggs without accident requires a
great deal of skill and experience."

But when, with an impatient exclamation,
he left the poultry-yard, Olivia's heart gave
way, and she began to reproach herself bitterly
for not having kept a bridle upon her tongue.
On the other hand, she was glad that her words
had provoked the mean little fellow to confess
his loans to her father ; for she thought she had
influence enough with the latter to prevent anymore
such transactions ; and as for the money
already owing, means must somehow be found
to repay it.

It was late in the afternoon before she was
able to start on the way to St. Cuthbert's. She
felt, as usual, some self-reproach at the thought
that she was acting contrary to her father's
wishes ; but, as usual, she was too self-willed to
give up her own in deference to his. The sun
was still glowing on the fields, and pouring its
hot rays on the roads, which were parched and
cracked for want of rain. The cart-tracks made
faint lines in a thick layer of white dust, which
the lightest breeze from the hills blew up in
clouds, coating the leaves on the hedges and
swirling into heaps by the well-worn footpath.
The wood that bordered the road for some
distance between Eishton and Matherham was
as silent as if the birds had all left it ; oak and
beech and dusty pine looked dry and brown
in the glare. It was a long, hot, weary walk ;
but at last she came near the lonely Vicarage,
and slipping down the final few yards of the
steep lane in a cloud of dust which was raised
by her own feet at each step, Olivia heard the
faint sound of voices coming from the house,

and stopped short, fancying she could detect
Yernon's voice, and wondering who was with
him. Bnt the sonnets ceased, and she went
slowly on, thinking she had perhaps been mistaken.
She entered the garden gate, and walked
np the stone pathway, still without hearing
anything more, until, suddenly, just as she was
within a few paces of the door, she heard a
woman's voice, low, but clear and strong, utter
these words 

Eemember, you swore it. Ten years ago
you swore it to me, and it is still as binding on
you as it was then."

Why should I forget it ? "

Olivia knew that it was Mrs. Brander's
voice that answered, in a tone full of contempt
and dislike 

Why, this Denison girl, this "

Neither she nor Yernon had paid any heed
to the footsteps on the stone flags.

Now Olivia hastened to ring the bell sharply,
and there was silence immediately.

How is Mr. Brander to-day ? " asked she

of Mrs. Warmington when the housekeeper
opened the door.

He's not much better, and not likely to be
while that uncivilised creature from the Antipodes
continues to make his abode here, and
worry my master, morning, noon, and night,"
said the housekeeper, tartly.

"Mr. Mitchell? Where is he now?" asked
Olivia, eagerly.

He's out in the churchyard there, poking
about among the gravestones. I've been watching
him from the window of the little room he
sleeps in. I don't know how he got hold of the
key. I have a duplicate, for cleaning the
church. I don't know myself where my master
keeps his."

I think I'll go and speak to Mr. Mitchell,
and come back when Mr. Brander is disengaged."


Disengaged ! He's disengaged now, as far
as I know  "

I think I heard Mrs. Brander's voice as I
came up the path."

The housekeeper's lips tightened, and she
drew herself up in evident disapproval.

Indeed ! I was not aware she was here."

Well, 111 be back in about a quarter of an
hour, as I should like to see Mr. Brander," said
Olivia, hastily.

Mrs. Warmington raised her eyebrows. She
was longing to tell Miss Denison that she
thought, under the circumstances, it would be
more modest to stay away ; but she did not
dare. So Olivia tripped down the stone path,
and was in the churchyard before the housekeeper
had had time to make up her mind how
much of her suspicions it would be proper to
communicate to a young girl.

It was some minutes before Olivia succeeded
in finding Ned Mitchell. The sun was setting
by this time, and there were dark shadows
among the ruined portions of the church. It
seemed to her, as she walked between the 
flower-beds, with their bright array of
geranium, cancellaria, and verbena, that this
innovation was out of place, and only showed

up, in a more striking manner, the havoc time
and tempest had made among the old stones,
just as the mowing of the grass upon them had
accentuated the irregular mounds and hillocks
which filled the ruined south aisle. Olivia
stepped in and out and over the mounds, calling
softly, "Mr. Mitchell! " At last, in the corner
where the old crypt was, she heard a sound
coming, as it were, from the ground under her
feet. She stopped and listened, holding her
breath. The sounds continued, a soft, muffled
thud, thud," as of some heavy instrument
brought again and again down on the earth. She
advanced, step by step, always listening, fancying
that she felt the ground tremble under her
feet at the force of the blows. At last she came
close to the place where the rugged steps leading
down into the crypt had been blocked up
years before. With her senses keenly on the alert,
Olivia noticed that some of the stones and earth
which blocked the entrance had been recently
moved ; and prying more closely she found,
behind a bramble and a tuft of rank grass, a
J 2

small hole, low down in the ground, which
looked scarcely large enough for the passage of
a man's body. However, this seemed to be the
only outlet from the vault, so Olivia sat down
on a broken gravestone, and waited.

It seemed to Olivia to be growing quite cold
and dark before a scraping and rumbling noise,
as of falling stones and earth, drew her attention
to the concealed hole in the ground. She got
up, and the noise almost ceased.

"It is I, Mr. Mitchell," she said, without being
able to see him ; " I've been waiting for you."

For answer, Mr. Mitchell's unmistakable
gruff voice murmured a string of sullen imprecations,
of which, luckily, nothing was distinctly
audible. However, he put his head out of the
hole, and then proceeded to extricate the whole
of his person with such exceeding neatness and
cleverness that the hole was scarcely enlarged,
and the bramble and grass remained intact. He
presented a strange appearance, however, for he
was in his shirt-sleeves ; a coloured silk handkerchief
was bound round his head down to his

eyes ; in his right hand he held a common
kitchen poker ; while he was so covered with
mould and dust from head to foot that but for
his peculiarly heavy movements and rough voice
he would have been unrecognisable.

Well, what are you doing here ? " he asked,
very ill-humoured, as he shook himself free
from some of the dust he had collected in his
subterranean exploration. " I thought I heard
somebody messing about up here. How did you
get in?"

In the same way that you did, except that
I asked for a key instead of taking one without
asking."

She was alarmed to see, when he had wiped
some of the dirt off his face with his handkerchief,
that he looked savagely self-satisfied, and
quite beyond all reasoning. This was proved
clearly by his next words. He nodded his head
quietly while she spoke, and then said 

All right. That's so. Now you had better
run home, and be careful not to say anything
about what you've just seen. For I tell you,

little girl, if you do anything to interfere with
me and my actions just now, it'll be the worst
day's work for your little parson up yonder that
ever was done. So now you know."

Olivia shivered, but she did not answer or
contradict him. She only said, in a subdued
and tremulous voice, " Good-evening, Mr.
Mitchell," and walked away towards the gate,
stumbling over the chips of stone that lay hidden
in the grass, which had been allowed to remain
long and rank in this the south side of the
graveyard. She unlocked the gate, passed out,
and was rocking it when she heard rapid footsteps
behind her.

Give me that key ! " said Mrs. Brander's
voice, so hoarse, so agitated that Olivia looked
round before she could be sure that it was really
the vicar's calm, cold wife.

Her large eyes had deep black semicircles
under them ; her usually firm lips were trembling
; her whole appearance showed a disorder,
a lack of that dainty preciseness in little things
which was so strongly characteristic of her.

This key ! " said Olivia, doubtfully. " Do
you know who is in there ? "

Mrs. Brander examined the girl from head to
foot with passionate mistrust, while at the same
time she struggled to regain a calmer manner.

Who is it ? " she asked, with an attempt at
an indifferent tone.

Mr. Mitchell."

The vicar's wife drew back from the gate.

You mean this ? You are not playing mea
trick ? "

"A trick? No. Why should I ?"

There was a pause, during which Mrs.
Brander stood looking at her fixedly. As she
did not speak, Olivia presently asked 

Do you still wish to go in ? "

Mrs. Brander hesitated, and then drew back
with a shudder.

No," she murmured, scarcely above her
breath, " I  I won't go in."

As, however, she did not attempt to go away,
Olivia bade her " Good-night," without getting
any answer, and went up the lane towards the

house. She did not wish to call at the Vicarage
now ; she wanted first to have time to think over
what she had seen and heard in the churchyard,
as well as her interview with Mrs. Brander. A
new idea, which promised to throw light on the
whole mystery, had come into her mind. But
there was the key to be returned to Mrs.
Warmington. After a moment's thought, she
decided that she would leave it at the back door,
and thus escape the risk of a meeting with Yernon.

But when she had reached the gate of the
yard behind the house, she heard Vernon's voice
calling her.

Miss Denison, Miss Denison, wait one
moment ! "

He had caught sight of her from a side
window, and in another minute he had comedown
to her.

Why did you come round this way ? " he
asked, taking her hand in one of his, which was
hot, and dry, and feverish.

I  I have the key of the churchyard to
return to Mrs. Warmington."

And you wanted to escape the chance of
seeing me. But I was watching for you, you
know," said he, looking at her tenderly. Then
he suddenly changed his manner. " I thought
you would come and see me to-day," he said.
It would he like your usual kindness when anyone
is ill."

I did call and inquire," said Olivia,
demurely. " But Mrs. Brander was with
you."

Yernon looked at her earnestly.

Ah ! " he exclaimed ; " then I know
when you came. I heard your footsteps."
Then he looked at her curiously, and asked,
Didn't you hear voices? Didn't you hear us
talking? "

Yes," answered Olivia, simply. " And I
heard something of what you were saying."

You will tell me what you heard ? "

Olivia answered, looking down 

I heard her remind you to keep an oath
that you had made to her, and I heard her
mention  me ! "

And didn't you want to know what she
meant ? "

I suppose I did."

"And will you be content not to know ? "

"Perhaps I shall. For I think I have
guessed something of the truth already."

Vernon's eyes glowed with passionate yearning
as they met hers.

Impossible ! " said he, below his breath.
And yet  you women have such quick perception.
If it is true that you know," he went on, ina
firmer and sterner voice, " I shall never dare to
speak to you again."

Olivia was trembling with excitement. It
was not true that she was mistress of the secret,
but there was a dim intuition in her mind which
bewildered, sometimes almost maddened her.
She did not attempt to answer Yernon Brander ;
but drawing sharply away from him the hand he
still held, she abruptly wished him " Goodnight,"
and putting the church keys on the wall
beside him, ran away up the lane as fast as her
active feet could carry her.

When Olivia reached home she was greeted
by severe silence on the part of her step-mother ;
while her father, who was usually so careful to
try to make amends for any unkindness of his
wife's by little unobtrusive attentions, carefully
avoided her. The girl learned the reason of
this treatment by remarks which Mrs. Denison,
apropos of nothing, addressed from time to time
to the children, warning them not to spoil their
clothes, as they were the last they would have ;
telling them not to disturb their father, as he
was writing to a gentleman to whom he owed
money, asking for time in which to repay it ;
and finally admonishing them to be courteous to
Olivia, as she could have the place sold up in a
moment by insulting her father's creditors :
from which Olivia gathered that Fred Williams
had already vented his spite on her father, and
thereby prepared a most uncomfortable domestic
life for her for some time to come.

She affected to take no notice of this treatment,
however, and did not even go in search of
her father, thinking it would be better to let the

first effects both, of Fred's and of his wife's ill-temper
pass off before she spoke to him on the
subject of the former's addresses.

Telling Lucy to bring ber supper up to her
rooms, Olivia left the inharmonious family circle
without bidding good-night to any one, and shut
herself up in the east wing, where she could
always draw the bolt of the outer door and be
free from molestation. This she did, and being
in a restless and excited state of mind, passed
the next two hours in wandering from one room
to the other, considering the mystery of Nellie
Mitchell's disappearance by the light of all the
facts which, one by one, had recently come to
her knowledge. She had become so accustomed
to these rooms that it was only now and then
that she remembered their connection with the
murdered girl. To-night, however, the recollection
startled her at every turn she took in her
walks up and down. She seemed again to seethe
bedroom as it had looked on her first entrance,
nearly six months ago, the rat scurrying
down the curtains, the carpet lying in damp

strings upon the floor, the mouldy books, and
the dust lying thickly on chairs and mantelpiece.
Everything had been changed since then ; fresh
hangings put to the bed ; bright cretonne coverings
to the old furniture ; a new carpet, soft and
warm, had replaced the damp rags. But on
this particular evening her imagination seemed
stronger than reality ; as she walked from the
one room to the other, she pictured to herself
always that the chamber she was not in at the
moment was in the state in which she had first
seen it.

These fancies grew so strong that they
drove more serious thoughts out of her head ;
just when she wanted to be able to analyse the
ideas which the day's occurrences had suggested,
she had lost all power of thinking connectedly ;
nothing but bewildering recollections of the
words she had heard and the scenes she had
witnessed could be got to occupy her excited
mind.

She ran at last to one of her bedroom windows,
threw it open, and looked out. It was

dark now, for it was past nine o'clock, and the
evening had turned wet. A light, drizzling
summer rain was falling, and the sky was heavy
with clouds. The outlook was so dreary that
after a few minutes she shut the window, shivering,
lit the candles, and tried to read. But she
was in such a nervous state that she uttered a
little scream when Lucy, bringing her supper,
knocked at the outer door. Very much disgusted
with herself for this display of feminine
weakness, she would not even allow Lucy, who
loved to linger about when she had any little
service to perform for " Miss Olivia," to stay fora
few minutes' chat. When the supper had been
laid on the table in the outer room, and the
bright little maid had run downstairs, Olivia did
not, as usual, lock the outer door after her. She
felt so unaccountably lonely and restless that she
went into the little passage outside her two
rooms, and set the outer door open, so as to feel
that her connection with the rest of the human
life in the house was not altogether severed.
She even walked to the end of the corridor and

glanced out through the large square window at
the end, listening all the while for some sounds
of the household life downstairs. But in this
east wing very little could be heard, and this
evening everything seemed to Olivia to be unusually
quiet.

The corridor window looked out over fields,
showing the farm garden, with its fruit trees
and vegetable beds on the right, and barns and
various other outbuildings on the left. Eight
underneath was a neglected patch of land  a
corner of the garden not considered worth
cultivation.

Lying among the rank grass were an
old ladder and a pile of boards, which had been
there when the Decisions took the farm, and had
remained undisturbed ever since. It suddenly
occurred to Olivia, for the first time, how alarmingly
easy it would be for an evilly-disposed
person to place the ladder against the wall, and
to effect an entrance through the window, the
fastening of which she noticed was broken, and
had evidently been so a long time. Not that

such a thing was likely to happen, burglaries
being unheard-of things in this neighbourhood.
Still, the idea got such firm hold of her excited
fancy, that, two hours later, when all the household
had retired to rest, she came out of her
apartments in her dressing-gown to give a final
glance outside, and to make sure that her absurd
fears were as groundless as she told herself they
were.

Opening the window and putting her head
out into the drizzling rain, Olivia saw, in the
gloom of the misty night, a dark object creeping
stealthily along outside the garden wall. Just
as it reached that part of the wall which was
immediately opposite the window, a watery
gleam of moonlight showed through the clouds,
and enabled her to see that the object was a
man. The next moment she saw him climb
over into the garden beneath. Still keeping
close to the wall, he crept rapidly along until he
was close under the window. Holding her
breath, Olivia watched him as he stooped and
lifted the ladder from the ground. Her blood

suddenly seemed to rush to her brain, and then
to trickle slowly back through her veins as cold
as ice.

For she recognised him !

A"

A NOCTURNAL INTRUDER.

Like all persons of strong nature, Olivia Denison
grew bolder as danger came nearer. When she
recognised the man in the garden, underneath
the corridor window, it did not occur to her to
call for help ; but all her energies were instantly
concentrated on learning the meaning of this
intrusion. She was sure that she had not been
seen. As noiselessly as she could she shut the
window, and retreated into the private passage
which led to her own apartments. There she
waited, peeping cautiously out under cover of
the black shadows of the corridor, into which
the faint moonlight could not penetrate.

She heard the grinding sound made by the
ladder as it was set against the wall, and
presently she saw a man's head appear just
above the ledge outside. He raised his hand,

gave three taps on the glass, and disappeared.
A minute later he mounted a step higher than
before, and tapped again. Then, with scarcely
an instant's more delay, he pushed up the
window slowly and noiselessly, and, as soon as it
was wide enough, put one leg over the sill and
stood in the corridor.

Olivia, brave as she was by nature, was
transfixed with alarm. What did he want with
her ? What shocking confession, what horrible
entreaties, had he come to make to her like this,
in the middle of the night ? If she could have
shrieked aloud, if she could have run out and
alarmed the household, she would have done so
now. But horror had paralysed her. The voice
she tried to use gave only a hoarse, almost
inaudible rattle. Her limbs were rigid ; her
breath came and went in gasps, like that of a
person dying of asthma. She could only stand
and stare at the advancing figure, hoping
desperately that the first words he uttered
would break this spell, and restore her to
herself. Why did he choose the night-time to
K2

come and make her the victim of his guilty
confidences? Were they too ghastly to make
by day? That this man was the murderer of
Nellie Mitchell she could not now doubt ; the
demeanour of his e very-day life was utterly
changed; there was guilt expressed in every
furtive movement. All her respect and liking
were transformed into loathing and fear; she
almost crouched against the wall as he approached.


He reached the entrance to the corridor, and
paused. If she could only keep still enough for
him to pass her ! Then she could escape into
the main building of the house, and have time
to think what she should do. But he stopped
short and stretched out his hand to knock at
the door. In the darkness he could not see that
it was open. But how, Olivia suddenly asked
herself, did he know there was a door thereat
all? Although he moved slowly, too, it was
with the manner of a man who knew his way
about the place. Part of the truth flashed
suddenly into her mind : he had been there

before. By this time he had discovered that
the door was open. Passing into the corridor,
he shut the door, turned the key, and put it in
his pocket. As he did so he touched Olivia,
but did not appear to know it. Now thoroughly
alarmed, she flew along the passage into her
bedroom, and was in time to lock the door
before she heard his footsteps in the outer
apartment. There was no lock to the door
between the two rooms. Xo one was likely to
hear her if she shrieked at one of the windows.
Before many minutes were over she felt that
she should have to face him.

She flew across the bedroom floor to blow ou
the candle, thinking that in the darkness she
would have a better chance of escape. As she
did so she stumbled against a chair, which fell
down with a loud noise. A moment later there
was a knock at the inner door. The girl's heart
stood still. She remained motionless, and gave
no answer. The knock was repeated. Still she
was silent. A third time came the knock,
and then a low, hoarse whisper, of one

word only, startled her, and came as a
revelation : 

Nellie ! "

This was the manner in which, years ago,
he had visited the girl whose love had ended by
wearying him so fatally. By what means he
had forgotten the intervening years she did not
know, but Olivia recognised at once that it wsls
not she of whom he was in search. The
knowledge restored in a moment all her courage.
If, as she supposed, fear of discovery had turned
his brain, his was a madness with which she
felt she could cope. After only one moment's
hesitation, she snatched up one of the candles,
and unlocking the door she had secured, passed
through the passage into the adjoining room.

Mr. Brander ! " said she, in a voice which
scarcely trembled.

She had to repeat her words three or four
times before he moved from the other door. At
last he turned very slowly, and Olivia, raising
the candle high, looked curiously, and not
wholly without fear, into his face.

His eyes were closed; his breathing was
heavy. He was asleep !

There flashed through her mind the remembrance
of what the Yicar of Eishton had said
about somnambulism, and the strange instances
of it which had occurred in his family. It was
clear to her that the excitement occasioned by
Ned Mitchell's obstinate determination had
preyed upon the mind of the murderer, and led
him at last to perform in sleep an action which
had been an habitual one with him eleven years
before.

In spite of the horror of this weird discovery,
Olivia's fears disappeared at once. She thought
she might, without waking him, persuade him
to go back as he had come. If he did wake, she
knew he would not hurt her. She began in a
low, intentionally monotonous voice 

I think you had better go back to-night.
It is getting very late ; it is almost daylight



As before, she had to repeat her words
before he grasped the sense of them.

Then lie repeated in a whisper, and as if
there were something soothing in the sound of
her voice 

Go back. Yes, go back."

I'll give you a light. Come along," she
went on, coaxingly.

And without a moment's delay she led the
way out into the passage. Much to her relief,
he followed, at the same slow, heavy pace.

Now," she said, when they had reached
the outer door, " give me the key, please."

He felt in his pocket obediently, and produced
the key, which she, overjoyed, almost
snatched from his hand. The noise she made in
her excitement, as she opened the door, seemed
to disturb him, for he began to move restlessly,
like a person on the point of waking. Once in
the corridor, however, Olivia was bold; she
passed her hands several times slowly down his
arms, murmuring in a low, soothing tone,
injunctions to him to get home quickly. This
treatment succeeded perfectly. His manner lost
its momentary restlessness, and it was in the

same stolid way as he came that he got out on
the ladder, descended, replaced the ladder in the
long grass, and climbed over the wall.

Olivia watched his retreating figure as long
as it was in sight, and then, feeling sick and
cold, slunk back into her rooms, not forgetting
to lock the outer door of the passage safely
behind her. Like most women, however brave,
when they have been through an exciting crisis,
she felt exhausted, limp, almost hysterical. She
staggered as she entered her bedroom, and it was
with a reeling brain that she walked up and
down, up and down, unable to sleep, unable even
to rest. She knew the mystery now, and she
felt that the knowledge was almost more than
she could bear.

Next morning her appearance, when she
came down late to breakfast, was so much
affected by the awful night she had passed that
even the children wondered what was the matter
with her. Mr. Denison, believing it to be the
result of his avoidance of her the evening before,
was cut to the heart with remorse ; while his

wife, alarmed at the change in the girl, altered
her tone, and did her best to be kind to her.
Olivia could not eat. Her cheeks were almost
livid; her great eyes seemed to fill her face ; the
hand she held out to be shaken was cold,
clammy, and trembling. Her amiable little
half-sister Beatrix saw an opening for a disagreeable
remark, and made use of it.

Mr. Williams wouldn't say you were pretty
if he could see you now," said she. " Would
he, mamma ? "

Like most children, she was quick enough
to detect how inharmonious were . the relations
between her mother and her step-sister. She
was surprised to find, however, that for once she
received no sympathy from the quarter whence
she expected it.

Be quiet, Beatrix, and don't be rude," said
Mrs. Denison, sharply, with a glance at Olivia,
on whom she thought that the reference to the
supposed cause of her distress would have some
sudden and violent effect.

Can't you keep those children in better

order, Marian ? " asked Mr. Denison, peevishly.
Their rudeness is getting quite intolerable."

However, Olivia scarcely heard this little
discussion, and was in no way moved by it. But
when the talk turned to the proposed restoration
of St. Cuthbert's, and from that to the persons
interested in it, she grew suddenly very still,
and sat looking down at her plate, listening
to each word with fear of what the next would
be.

I wonder how the vicar likes to see his wife
about so constantly with another man, if it is
his own brother," said Mrs. Denison, who, in
spite of her experience as a governess, was one
of those people who think it doesn't matter what
subjects you discuss before children, because
they don't understand." " I'm sure the last
week or so I've scarcely ever seen one without
the other."

Well, now, do you know, I thought it was
awfully good-natured of her. You know the
stories that have been flying about lately . I'm
sure I don't pretend to say whether there's any

truth in them or not ; still, they have been
flying about."

"And not without some ground, you may
depend," said Mrs. Denison, tartly.

While avoiding the subject which she supposed
to be the cause of Olivia's present distress,
her step-mother could not resist the opportunity
of giving that headstrong young lady a few
gentle thrusts on the subject of her " fancy for
murderers." Mr. Denison glanced from his wife
to his daughter, who, by putting strong constraint
on herself, appeared not to notice what
was being said.

Well, and as she must know the rights of
the story, it seems to me all the kinder in Mrs.
Brander to take any notice of him now, when
he's under a cloud, as it were."

Mrs. Denison uttered a little sound significant
of doubt and scorn.

"It is to be hoped that everybody else will
put as kind an interpretation upon her conduct,"
she said drily. " Only last Tuesday I met them
as I walked back from the Towers. They were

sitting in that little cart sort of thing Mrs.
Brander drives  not at all the right kind of
turn-out for a clergyman's wife, in my opinion 
and talking together so  well, so confidentially
that they took no notice of me whatever."


"Didn't see you, of course," said Mr. Venison,
shortly.

It may have been that, certainly," assented
his wife, incredulously. " Or it may be that
they are not too much lost to shame to avoid
the eye of a lady whom they respect when
they feel they are not behaving quite
correctly."

Rubbish ! " said Mr. Denison, shortly.

It was so seldom that the so-called head of
the house ventured so near to an expression of
adverse opinion that there was a short silence,
which his wife broke in a dangerously dignified
manner.

Perhaps," she began, with strong emphasis,
when the whole truth comes to light concerning
his relations with other ladies, my opinion

on the matter will not be considered ' rubbish '
after all."

Reginald, with the delightful relish of an
innocent child for conversation not intended for
his ears, had left off making patterns on the
tablecloth with the mustard spoon, in order to
listen and watch with his mouth open. He now
broke in with a happy sense that he was making
mischief.

Oh, look, mamma, what a funny colour
Olivia's face has gone ! " cried he, pointing to
her with the mustard spoon.

The girl got up and left the room. Her
father, who could not bear to see any one unhappy,
was miserable at the thought that he
himself was partly the cause of his darling
daughter's grief.

Olivia, my dear child, come, down  come
here," he called after her from the hall as she
fled upstairs.

She never could resist any appeal . from
him, so she crept down again, unwillingly
enough.

Oh, that woman, that woman ! Papa, I
must go away. I can't live with her," she
whispered as she laid her head on his shoulder
and received his caress and incoherent attempts
at comfort.

Well, dear, what can I do? " he whispered,
apologetically, back. " You see, you were such
a little thing when your mother died, and I
hate a household without a woman in it, so
that even "

Even an objectionable woman is better
than none," suggested Olivia, mischievously.

"Oh, no, my dear, I didn't say that,"
whispered he, hurriedly.

~No, papa, you don't dare," said Olivia, with
a touch of her old archness. " I really think
that when a man with children marries a second
time, he ought to drown the first lot in mercy
to them."

Poor Mr. Denison looked down at her
ruefully.

My dear, I hope you didn't mean that,"
was all he ventured to say.

Yes, I did."

Here Mr. Denison perceived an opening fora
suggestion which his wife, of late, had been
constantly urging him to make. Not being
quite sure how his daughter would take it, he
hurried it out in a shame-faced manner without
looking at her 

Since you don't get on very well together,
I wonder you don't take the chance of getting a
nice home of your own ; you know you could if
you liked."

"What, by wearing little Freddy Williams
for ever on my watch-chain ? " cried Olivia,
turning off the suggestion as a joke to avoid
paining her father by expressing the disgust
she felt.

Well, my child, you know I shouldn't press
upon you anything that wouldn't make you
happy ; but if you wait for a husband worthy of
you, you'll die an old maid."

And if you'll go on living till you're about
a hundred and five to keep me company, papa,
I'll be the oldest maid in England with pleasure,"

said she, affectionately, as she kissed his cheek
and ran away upstairs.

She had some work to do this morning 
work for which she must drive all thought
of last night's adventure out of her head.
As soon as she reached her own room she
unlocked the drawer in which she kept her
trinkets, and spreading them out before heron
the dressing-table, she mentally passed them
in review to decide which were the most likely
to be saleable. Not a bad collection for a young
girl, they formed ; though Olivia, ignorant as
she was about the value of jewellery, thought
how poor they looked from the point of view at
which she was now considering them. A pair of
turquoise and pearl earrings and brooch to match,
a heavy gold bracelet, a set of garnets and pearls
of quaint old-fashioned design, a handsome
silver chatelaine watch, a quantity of silver
bangles, a few very modest-looking rings, a
diamond arrow brooch, and a massive gold necklet.
Everything but the arrow, which had been
a present from her father on her eighteenth

birthday, looked, in a strictly commercial light,
clumsy or out of date. The arrow must be
sacrificed, she told herself with a sigh ; so must
the gold necklet and bracelet, which she rightly
judged to be next in value. If she could only
sell these things, and get ten or twelve pounds
for them, she could pay off a fair instalment
of her father's debt to Fred Williams immediately,
and she must trust to luck and
her own determination for the rest. So she
made a parcel of the trinkets she had chosen,
and, at the last moment, packed also the turquoise
and pearl set ; then, dressing hastily, she slipped
out of the house, and started at a rapid pace on
her way to Matherham.

Before she reached the high-road, however,
she was met by Fred Williams, who was sauntering
about, pipe in mouth, at the point where
the roads met, on the chance of meeting her.
He surveyed her with a sidelong look of unwilling
admiration.

Good-morning, Miss Denison," he said,
curtly, pulling off his cap in a sort of grudging

manner. " I suppose you have nothing fresh
to say to me this morning ? "

"Not at present, though I may have by-and-by,"
said she, lightly.

Oh, well, er  do you know whether your
father is likely to be about this morning ? I
want to see him on business."

Olivia looked at him with great contempt
from under her sweeping black eyelashes.

He is about, of course ; but I don't think
you need trouble yourself to see him, for I have
a message to you from him. It is this : the
first instalment of the money he owes you will
be paid to-day, and the remainder very shortly.
And he is very sorry to have put you to any inconvenience
by accepting the loan."

\Vith which speech, and a low bow, Olivia
left Mr. Williams to the enjoyment of his own
society.

Then on she sped towards Matherham, not

by way of the wood and St. Cuthbert's, but by

the shorter road that went past the Towers. A

great bare building it was, standing ostentatiously

L 2

on very high ground, with a spire here, a minaret
there, and various irregular erections springing
up from the roof to make good its name. Olivia
laughed to herself, and wished the lady who
might ultimately obtain the hand of her mean-spirited
admirer joy of her bargain. She was not
unhappy ; the fearful nature of her discovery of
the night before had shaken her out of the depression
from which she had lately been suffering.
She was excited, full of indignation and of
energy ; her head full of wild surmises, of fears
connected with the approaching crisis. As if
trying to keep pace with her fantastic thoughts,
her feet seemed to fly along the ground. The
few persons she passed stared at or curtseyed to
her without any acknowledgment ; she saw no
one but the people in her thoughts.

Suddenly she was roused out of her wild
reverie by hearing her own name called in sharp
tones. She looked down from the high pathway
alongside the hedge into the road, which at
this point was some five feet below. There she
saw the Vicarage pony carriage, containing Mrs.

Brander, who was driving, with Vernon sitting
by her side. It was the lady who had called to
Olivia. Having pulled up the ponies to the
side of the road, she now beckoned to the girl
in an impatient, imperious manner to comedown.


Good-morning," said Olivia, coldly, without
attempting to leave the pathway. Her
cheeks had grown in an instant deadly white on
seeing who was the lady's companion ; but she
did not glance at him. "I can't stop this
morning, Mrs. Brander ; I'm in a great hurry,"
she said, in an unsteady voice, while her
heart beat violently ; and she felt that if the
interview lasted a minute longer, she should not
be able to stand without support.

But I have something important to say
to you  very important. I really must beg you
to give me a moment ; and, if you like, I will
drive you into Matherham myself."

No, thank you," said Olivia, hastily.

One minute, then, I beg, Miss Denison."

The imperious lady's voice had suddenly

broken and become imploring. Olivia, with
downcast eyes, and feet that tottered under
her, found a convenient place for a descent
into the road, and the next minute stood by
the pony carriage, on the side where Mrs.
Brander was sitting. She neither looked up
nor spoke, but left the opening of the conversation
to the vicar's wife, whose hands, as
she held the reins, shook with a nervousness
altogether unusual with her. With strange
diffidence, too, Mrs. Brander hesitated before
she spoke.

You are walking into Matherham ? " she
asked, at last.

Yes, Mrs. Brander."

You are sure you won't let me drive you
in ?

Quite sure, thank you."

Yernon, you know, would get down ; he'd
rather walk, I'm certain."

Olivia's face became suddenly crimson. .

1 couldn't think of turning Mr. Brander
out," she said, coldly.

I should be delighted' murmured Yernon
in a low tone.

In spite of all her efforts to retain her self-command,
Olivia shivered at the sound of his
voice. She felt, although she never once looked
at the face of either, that both the man and
the woman were watching her intently. They
had some suspicion of the knowledge she had
so strangely obtained, she was sure. There was
a pause, and then Mrs. Brander spoke again.

You don't look so well as usual this morning,
Miss Denison," she said, not quite able to
keep curiosity and anxiety out of her tone.
You are quite pale. We miss your lovely
roses."

M I have had a bad night," said Olivia,
shortly, and with a sudden determination that
it would be better to let them know all she
had discovered.

The effort Mrs. Brander made to retain her
usual calmness and coldness was piteous to see.
Her beautiful features quivered ; her great black
eyes were dilated with apprehension.

A bad night ? " she repeated, inquiringly.

Yes. I was frightened. A man got into
my sitting-room."

Neither of her hearers made any but the
faintest attempt to affect astonishment.

"It must have alarmed you horribly," said
Mrs. Brander with blanched lips. "Did you
call any one ? "

"No."

Over the face of the vicar's wife came an
expression of great relief.

Have you told any one ? "

"This is the first time I have mentioned
it."

There was a pause.

Have you any idea  who  the man 
was ? "

I recognised him at once, before he got in
at the window. He spoke to me, but he did not
know who I was. He was asleep."

He spoke to you ? "

"Yes. He addressed me as 'Nellie.' '

Olivia had dropped her eyes, but she heard

Mrs. Brander's breath coming quickly, as if she
was choking. The girl put her hand out impulsively
on the arm of the elder lady, and
whispered, without looking up 

You made me tell you. And, after all,
what does it matter ? I think you know."

She felt her hand seized with a convulsive
pressure.

"You will say nothing ?" Then Mrs.
Brander snatched her hand away. " No, no ; it
is asking too much, of course. And perhaps,
after all, it would be of no use."

At any rate, Mrs. Brander, nobody but you
will ever hear the story from me."

She ignored Vernon, as she had ignored
him throughout the whole of the interview.
Mrs. Brander drew a laboured sigh.

I trust you," she said in a hoarse voice.
A woman can keep a secret as well as a man, I
know."

Oh, yes," said Olivia, simply. " Now you
will let me go, will you not ? "

She was frank, honest ; but she was not

cordial ; scarcely even kind. When Mrs. Brander
pressed her hand again, however, she returned
the pressure with a firm grasp. Then, still
without a glance at Vernon, she ho wed and
wished the vicar's wife " Good-morning," and,
turning, resumed her walk towards Matherham.
She had not gone many yards before she
quickened her pace still more, hearing footsteps
she recognised behind, and then beside
her.

It was Yernon Brander.

For some time he walked on in silence by
her side, not daring to address her. At last
he said, humbly, imploringly 

Won't you speak to me? "

No answer.

Have you forgotten all you once said to me
about friendship ? "

No," she answered, in a frightened,
constrained voice, still without looking at
him.

Eemember, what you saw last night was no
worse than what you already believed."

"Yes, it was!" panted Olivia. "It was
worse : much worse  to see  to hear. It was
something I shall never forget. But don't let
us speak of it."

But is it to make this difference, that you
will never speak to me again? "

' It is to make no difference ; you heard me
say so. You wish it ; she wishes it. I have
promised."

I take you at your word. If you had discovered
nothing, you would have let me go into
Matherham with you, and you would have told
me the object of your going. Will you
now r

Yes, if you like, Mr. Brander." In spite
of herself, her tone was more formal than
usual. " I am going to get some money to
repay a loan from that wretched little Fred
Williams."

To your father, of course. And I suppose,"
he added, glancing at the little parcel
she carried in her hand, " you are going to
sell some trinkets of your own to do so."

To help to do so," answered Olivia, with
a blush and a look of surprise at his perspicacity.
" The whole sum is much more than
anything of mine could fetch."

Will you tell me how much ? "

Fifty pounds ! "

And will you, as a pledge of what you
said  that you will forget everything  do forme
what, I know, you would not do for any
other man ? "

"What is that?"

Let me lend you the money. I spend
nothing. I have a considerable sum saved, and
it will do me a pleasure  such a pleasure ! "
he added, earnestly, below his breath. " It
would be a mark of confidence which would
prove to me, whatever I may have done wrong
and my conscience is not too clear, I know
you know  prove to me that you have a
little compassion, a little kindness, for me
still."

Without answering in words, Olivia, who
was trembling violently, took his hand, pressed

it quickly for one moment in hers, and let it drop
hastily, as if she had been too bold.

Then, without the exchange of a single word
more, they walked through the narrow, hilly
streets of Matherham, which they had now
reached, until they came to the bank where
Vernon kept an account. Olivia walked on
while he went into the building ; in a very few
minutes he overtook her and put an envelope into
her hand. She did not thank him ; he did not
give her time.

I am very grateful," he said simply ; " I 
I can't say any more now. Good-bye."

Olivia looked up and spoke with a sob in her
voice.

Good-bye," she said.

Then they looked into each other's eyes with
the long, sad look of a farewell, and she was not
surprised at his next words.

I daresay," he said, in a hoarse voice, " that
I shall be going away from here before long ; I
daresay I shall have to  when the tower is
built," he added in a whisper, looking down.

"No, don't say anything  I couldn't bear
it."

But Olivia, though she tried, could utter no
word. She wrung his hand, and looked straight
into his face with an expression of passionate
sympathy and despair. Then, without another
word, they parted.

A DISCOVERY AT ST. CUTHBERT's.

Olivia hurried back towards the farm with the
little packet in her hand which was to release
her father from his hateful indebtedness to Fred
Williams. It was true, it rendered her herself
indebted to somebody else ; but, with a woman's
perversity, she preferred the greater evil to the
less. It was rather an awkward matter, however,
to acquaint her father with what she had done,
especially as she found him in the lowest depths
of despondency.

Don't speak to me, my dear  don't speak
to me," was his greeting to his daughter when
she pounced upon him, with a light-hearted
laugh, from behind the hedge of one of his own
cornfields.

He was contemplating the ripening crop
with a most rueful face.

Why not, papa ? Perhaps I may have
some good news for you."

Good news ! Oh, no," he answered, dolefully,
shaking his head. " It must be for somebody
else if you have any good news. So go
away, or I may be cross ; and I don't want
to speak crossly to you, my darling."

There was not much fear of such a thing,
evidently ; for when she persisted in coming to
him, and giving him a hearty kiss, the wrinkles
in his forehead began immediately to clear away.

It's all your fault, you minx," said he,
looking affectionately at the girl's bonny face.
You've turned the heads of all the lads about
here, and then it's your poor old father that
they ' wreak their vengeance on,' as the melodramas
say."

"Why, papa," said the girl, blushing,
who's been teasing you now? Produce him,
and let me wither him up with a glance."

Well, the first thing I hear this morning
is that the old brute John Oldshaw has been
making all sorts of mischief about me to Lord

Sfcannington's agent  says I'm ruining the land,
and all that ; and it's all because he's angry at
poor Mat's humble admiration for you, I know.
He says I'm not fit to be a farmer. Now what
do you think of that ? "

The enormity of this allegation made Mr.
Denison quite unable to proceed. But Olivia
shook her head and laughed.

I think, papa, that if all Mr. Oldshaw's
statements were as veracious as that, he would
be a much honest man than he is."

Why, what do you mean, child? "
That if the whole world had been
thoroughly scoured to find the one man most
unsuitable for the occupation of farming, they
could not have done better than light on
you."

Olivia, I'm surprised at you ! " said her
father, assuming a tone of great dignity, mingled
with indignation.

Ah, you may well be surprised to find
a girl with as much common sense as a man,' 5
retorted she, merrily ; for since her return from
M

Matherham her spirits Lad risen in an extraordinary
manner. " Now, papa, look at John
Oldshaw. He's a perfect type of a successful
farmer. And he's mean, and he's vulgar, and
he's industrious, and he's economical ; while
you  pardon me  are none of those things. I
don't say that all good farmers are like John
Oldshaw, but I'm certain none of them are a bit
like you. And if he can persuade you that
you'll never do anything at farming but lose
your money, and catch cold looking at oats that
won't ripen and turnips that won't come up,
he'll do you a very great service."

But, my dear," remonstrated her father,
not quite certain whether to be amused or
offended by her wicked plain-speaking, " you
don't understand these things ; women never
do. Of course, it's not their province, and we
don't expect it of them." The poor old fellow's
tone grew more confident when he got into
these mild platitudes. " John Oldshaw has
always shown himself jealous of me : firstly,
because I'm a gentleman ; and, secondly, because

I conduct my farming on different principles
from his."

"Yes, papa," said Olivia, demurely, "on
very different principles. He gets large crops,
and you get small ones. And John Oldshaw
wants to turn you out, and apply his principles
to your land. And I wish you would let
him."

Mr. Denison sighed. He could not quite
hide from himself that there were grains of
truth and good sense in his daughter's suggestions
; hut the secret admission made him impatient
and irritable.

Of course," he said, turning upon her, " I
am not likely to get on here or anywhere while
my people insult the friends who would help me
to tide over the bad time."

"Do you mean that I have insulted Fred
Williams, papa ? " asked Olivia, who was too
straightforward to allow the talk to be carried on
by innuendoes.

"Well, and what if I do?" asked Mr.
Denison, taken aback ; for he was one of those
M 2

persons who will walk round about a fact forever
without facing it.

Has the little reptile been worrying you
about the money he lent you ? "

Reptile ! " echoed Mr. Denison, trying to
evade the question. "That is a strong word
for a young lady to use, my dear. Not but what
I have been disappointed in that young fellow.
He seemed such a generous, open-hearted lad
that, I own, he induced me to break my rule,
and allow him to accommodate me in a little
difficulty I was in "

And are you out of the difficulty, papa? "

Well, my dear, I am, in a sense, out of
that one. But difficulties have such a way of
clinging together; where they've been once,
they come again."

And this wretched creature has been
worrying you, then ? "

Well, he spoke to me about you in such a
way that I was mad with myself for having
allowed him to oblige me."

I think I can free you from that obligation,

papa," said she, gently. " Only you mustn't
ask where the money came from."

What ? " cried he in astonishment. " My
dear child, }ou are dreaming. I owe him fifty
pounds."

Look here."

She opened her little packet, and unfolded
before him ten live-pound notes.

"But, Olivia, I can't take these from you
without knowing how you got them," said her
father, trying to assume a rather severe paternal
air.

"It's very simple; I went into Matherham,
followed a rich-looking old gentleman into a
quiet street, knocked him down, and robbed
him," she answered, laughing. " But you
needn't have any qualms of conscience about the
proceeds of the deed, for I'm going to hand them
over to Fred Williams myself, with a message
from you  which I shall make up."

But, Olivia, I really cannot permit "

It's too late now ; the power of permission
is denied you. But, remember, when you next

meet that miserable little goose, you can hold up
your head and snap your fingers at him, for
there will be no obligation between you any
longer."

She nodded good-bye to him very brightly,
checked his expostulations with a kiss, and ran
off over the fields in the direction of the Towers ;
for Olivia was feverishly anxious to pay off
the debt, and she had little doubt that she would
find Fred lounging on his father's lawn, softening
what brains he had by the help of some
fluid or other, and a strong cigar. She met him,
however, before she reached the gate of the
Towers. He had just come from Matherham
in a hansom, and was quarrelling with the cabman
about his fare ; but w r hen he caught sight
of Olivia he changed his tone, and threw the
man a handful of silver with an ostentatious
air. Then he came up to her with a manner
full of exaggerated respect, and an expression of
face in which the girl instantly detected a good
deal of malice.

"Delighted to see you, Miss Denison; it

isn't often you do us the honour of a visit up
here. You wish to see my sister, I suppose'

No, I came to see you, and I won't detain
you long. I am commissioned by my father to
bring you the money you so kindly lent him,
and to say how deeply obliged he is for the
graceful generosity you have shown him in this
matter."

Fred Williams was annoyed, but he did not
seem surprised.

Oh, all right," he said, gruffly. " You
needn't sneer. Your guv'nor was precious glad
to take it at the time : that's all T know.
And you haven't got me on toast, as you think ;
for I saw you pass here this morning, and 1
followed you into Matherham, and I know w T hat
you did there," he added, triumphantly.

Nothing that I am ashamed of," said the
girl, quietly.

Oh no, you've too much cheek to be
ashamed of anything. You've paid me back today,
and I'll pay you back tomorrow ; for
tomorrow the workmen begin to dig in St.

Cuthbert's churchyard, and if they should come
across anything that'll upset your friend's apple-cart,
remember you had the chance to stop it.
And perhaps you won't feel so proud then of
having got clear of debt to me by running into
debt with a murderer  yes, a murderer, Miss
High-and-Mighty," he continued, with a little
dance of delight on the garden path. " And if you
don't feel jolly well ashamed of yourself and
your friend by about this time next week, why,
I'm a polished gentleman, that I am ! "

You couldn't say anything stronger than
that, Mr. Williams," said Olivia, ingenuously.
I suppose I shall have the pleasure of meeting
you tomorrow at St. Cuthbert's. Good-morning."


And, quite unaffected by his threats, she
bowed to him with great ceremony, and tripped
away down the road as if greatly pleased with her
interview.

But Olivia was not at ease ; she only appeared
so because she was excited to the pitch
of recklessness. As the day drew on, and the

time for the commencement of the excavations at
St. Cuthbert's grew nearer, she became restless,
depressed, and so irritable that she had to pass
the time either out of doors or in her own rooms,
to avoid the domestic friction which she felt that
to-day she could not bear. Next morning she
awoke with a deadening sense of being on the
brink of some great danger. At the breakfast-table,
at which she duly appeared to avoid
giving unnecessary alarm to her father, her looks
again provoked much comment, which she boreas
patiently as she could, being particularly
anxious not to encourage a discussion which
might lead to interference with a project she had
in view. She was so impatient to leave the
house that every trifling delay seemed to her to
be part of a conspiracy to keep her indoors.
When her usual household duties were disposed
of, when Mrs. Denison's request that she would
make up a parcel for the dyer's had been
complied with, she crept up-stairs with a heart
full of anxiety, dressed, slipped out of the house,
and sped away in the direction of St. Cuthbert's.

For all her haste, she could not reach the
churchyard much before twelve o'clock, when
the workmen, their morning's labour almost
over, were slackening their efforts in anticipation
of the dinner hour. Already their invasion had
entirely changed the aspect of the churchyard.
Piles of scaffolding-poles, ladders, and boards, lay
just inside the walls. Planks, placed across
the broken gravestones, formed bridges for the
passage of wheelbarrows to and from the scene
of operations. This, Olivia saw, was the ground
at the foot of the tower, extending to the crypt,
the entrance to which had been freed from the
stones and bricks which had blocked it up for so
long. The men seemed to be at work in all
directions : some were erecting a scaffolding
against the old tower, the upper part of which
was to be taken down ; some carting away stones
and rubbish from the east end ; some removing
that corner of the roof of the south aisle which,
in a crumbling and dangerous condition, still
remained. But it was upon the corner where
the old crypt was that Olivia's attention at once

fixed. For here, listening perfunctorily with one
ear to old Mr. Williams, who had a self-made
man's veneration for his own utterances, and
keeping a sharp look-out upon two workmen
whose labours within the crypt he was superintending,
was Ned Mitchell.

Nothing had happened so far, Olivia easily
guessed j no discoveries had been made ; no
alarm had been given. But, to her fancy, there
hung over the whole place the hush of expectancy
: the workmen scarcely spoke to each
other, the onlookers seemed to hold their breath.
Another feature of the scene was that these onlookers
each seemed to have come by stealth, and
to wish to remain unnoticed by the rest. Olivia
herself, for instance, remained outside the
churchyard wall, seeing only so much of the operations
as could be observed from the highest part
of the rough and broken ground. Then, lurking
behind the hedge on the opposite side of the lane,
was the lame tramp, Abel Squires, who from
this post could see very little more than the
scaffolding-poles, but who had remained there,

nevertheless, since the moment, early that morning,
when the workmen from Sheffield first made
their appearance. Yernon was inside the
church, keeping out of the way of every one
but the foreman, to whom he was giving certain
structural explanations ; while Mrs. Brander
watched the proceedings from her pony carriage
in the lane, and Fred Williams from the church
roof. A small crowd of the country people,
chiefly children and old pit-women, filled up the
spaces, and made the isolation of the others less
noticeable. Roaming about the churchyard, ina
somewhat impatient manner, was also a gentleman
whom Olivia did not immediately recognise
as the doctor who had attended Ned Mitchell in
his illness.

It was a sultry day, sunless and heavy. The
smoke of the Sheffield chimneys hung over the
hills in a thick black cloud, and appeared, Olivia
thought, to be coming nearer and nearer. The air
seemed to choke, instead of invigorate ; the leaves
of the trees hung parched and still. The girl's
excitement had all evaporated ; she waited there

without hope, without fear, in a dull state
of expectancy, her clearest thought being a faint
wish that she might be able to get quietly home
again without having to speak to any one. Still
she stood there, and watched the workmen
slowly putting on their coats, the doctor as he
flitted about the churchyard, without quite
knowing whether she was asleep or awake,
whether the figures moving silently about
were flesh-and-blood creatures or images seen ina
dream.

Suddenly a breath of air seemed to pass over
every one, and the stirring of a more active life
was felt. It was a voice at the gate of the
churchyard which broke the hushed silence, and
made every eye look up, while the women and
children curtseyed, and the workmen touched
their caps. The Vicar of Eishton, cheerful and
smiling and bland, had worked the change by
his appearance alone. A certain listlessness
which had begun to creep over watchers and
workers at the end of an eventless morning
under a sullen sky, disappeared. There arose a

hum of talk; the workmen who had left off
work hurried to their dinner-cans ; the few who
were still digging felt a spurt of fresh energy.
It was felt that the portly presence of the much-respected
vicar gave eclat to the proceedings, and
new interest to a monotonous occupation. Only
Ned Mitchell remained entirely unmoved. He
gave the clergyman a glance and a nod, and
then turned again to the two men at work in
the crypt.

Get on, you lazy devils ! " he said, kicking
a stone impatiently. " You might be millionaires,
both of you, not to think it worth while to
work harder for the chance of a ten-pound
note. ,,

Why, we've turned the whole place out,
master, and blest if there's a blooming' thing to
be found there except earth and stones," said
one, in a rather grumbling tone.

Hey, what ? " asked Mr. Williams, in a
surprised tone. " What's that they're looking
for, eh, Mitchell ? Something lost ? Something
buried, eh ? "

"Both lost and buried," said Ned, briefly.
u What do you think, parson ? "

And he turned quickly to the Reverend
Meredith Brander, who had by this time, after
a triumphal progress between two lines of admiring
villagers, reached the group.

Well, the churchyard is the place for the
lost and buried, certainly," replied the vicar,
whose bright complexion and serene smile were
a charming thing to see after the anxious and
gloomy faces the rest of the assembly had been
wearing. " But, as we know, a time will come
when we shall recover our lost ones," he added,
with gentle solemnity.

Some of us will recover 'em sooner than we
bargain for, perhaps," said Ned, drily.

The vicar did not answer; indeed, he looked
as if he did not understand. He nodded pleasantly,
and looked round, smiling on such members
of his family and of his congregation as
were in sight. For a curious thing had happened
since his coming ; all those before-mentioned
spectators who had been watching, as it were,

by stealth, now with one accord drew near to
the entrance of the crypt, and cast at the vicar
side-long glances of deep interest. Thus Olivia,
Mrs. Brander, Yernon, the doctor, and Abel
Squires, found themselves, as if by preconceived
arrangement, within a few feet of each other,
and yet seemed to be unaware of this fact. The
vicar also seemed not to notice this ; but Ned
Mitchell took in the curious situation with a
keen glance, and read the varied expressions of
curiosity, anxiety, and despondency, on the several
faces, with cynical swiftness.

The men in the crypt did not leave off work
with the rest ; on the contrary, urged on by
Ned Mitchell, whose tone grew sharper with
every order he gave, they used pickaxe and spade
with renewed energy.

I don't quite understand the necessity
for all this delving in the crypt," said old Mr.
Williams, at last, rather pompously.

He was a man by habit too much occupied
with himself to have troubled his head about
the stories and scandals of the neighbourhood,

and no suggestion of any mystery connected with
St. Cuthbert's had ever reached his ears.

You'll see presently, perhaps," answered
Ned, who betrayed his ever-increasing excitement
only by the growing curtness of his tone.
For he perceived, peering down into the
gloom where the men w T ere working, that the
digging and delving had suddenly ceased, and
that, in the remotest corner of the little crypt,
both were kneeling down examining the low r er
part of the wall. .Then one of the men struck a
match, and a moment later his fellow-workman
came to the opening.

We've found something, sir ! " said he, in a
low voice.

"Eh? What?" asked old Mr. Williams,
who began to have an idea that he was being
made a fool of.

There was a sort of rustle and nutter among
the bystanders ; for though all had not heard
the workman's words, all knew that something
had happened. Ned Mitchell, who w r as now so
much excited that he dared not trust himself to
N

speak, beckoned to the doctor. The latter, who
was on the alert, came up immediately. He was
an active, brisk little man, sparing of words.

I think we shall want you now, doctor,
please," said Ned, in a voice which was getting
hoarse and rasping. " What is it }ou have
found, mate ? " he went on, turning to the workman.


It's a body, we think, your honour  the
body of a woman."

The vicar, on entering the churchyard, had
locked the gate, to keep out the swarm of unruly
boys who always ooze out of the pores of the
earth when anything of an unusual nature is
going on ; so that few people but those most
interested in this discovery were present to hear
the announcement of it. These all pressed forward
until they stood  a silent, excited group
close to the crypt entrance. Mrs. Brander,
although she remained perfectly quiet, laid her
hand, either from sympathy or for support, on
the arm of her brother-in-law. Vernon himself
looked, if possible, more pale and haggard than

ever ; but his face wore its habitual expression
when in repose, a look of grave and somewhat
cynical good - humour. The only noticeable
thing about his demeanour was his careful
avoidance of Olivia Denison ; he would not even
meet her eyes. The girl herself was white
to the lips and cold from head to foot. Fred
Williams, in a cheerful voice, offered her the
support of his arm.

These are nasty scenes for a lady to be
present at," said he, with a little compunction
in his voice. "won't you let me take you
away r

She shook her head, and signed to him to
leave her, which he did reluctantly and with some
shame. In the meantime the gentlemen had
descended into the crypt, with the exception of
Yernon, who was detained by Mrs. Brander. By
the light of a lantern and a torch a ghastly sight
was soon disclosed to view.

In the lower part of the wall of the crypt,
in the corner nearest the entrance, to which
no daylight could ever pierce its way, was
N 2

unearthed, between the basis of two of the pillars
supporting the roof, the almost fleshless skeleton
of a woman, the damp rags of whose dress, still
recognisable, hung round the bones in shrunken
folds. The flaring and flickering of the lights
on what had once been a beautiful face, on the
remains of the finery which every other girl in
the village had once envied, made an ever-changing,
hideous picture, upon which the men
all gazed with feelings of pity, horror, and
disgust.

A savage exclamation burst from Ned's lips.
Old Mr. Williams was struck dumb with horror ;
for to him the discovery was quite unforeseen.
The doctor bent over the skeleton, and, taking a
lantern into his own hand, looked carefully at
the horrible thing, touched it, removed part of
the ragged clothing, and muttered something
the rest could not hear. The Vicar of Bishton,
accustomed to death in many forms, maintained
a demeanour of reverent gravity, tempered by
amazement. As the doctor stooped, however, he
interposed with some haste, and, coming close

beside him, tried gently but firmly to thrust him
aside.

There must be an inquiry into this, I suppose,"
he said ; " though, for the sake of the
unhappy man who committed this deed, and
whom we know to have repented long ago, I
trust it may be made as quietly as possible. In
the meantime, the remains must be laid decently
in some suitable place. I would suggest the
church itself."

The doctor interrupted him brusquely. He
with the rest, had been listening in dead silence
to the clergyman's words.

Where you like, vicar ; but I must make
an examination first. If I'm not mistaken, I've
seen something just now which will be a positive
means of identifying the murderer."

Still the vicar insisted, gently, but with becoming
determination.

I really think, in a matter touching the
sanctity of the dead, that I, as vicar, ought to
have a voice."

But you're not the vicar of this church,"

said the doctor, standing his ground. " The
Yicar of St. Cuthbert's is your brother Yernon ;
and if, as you seem to say, he has had anything
to do with this business "

There was a stir among the hearers, and
old Mr. Williams burst out, "What! What!
Yernon Brander ! Bless me ! You don't mean
to say ? "

The vicar was protesting ; Ned Mitchell was
swearing and muttering ; Fred Williams, who
had crept in during the last few minutes, was
whistling softly to himself, to keep off the
horrors.

Suddenly the doctor, who had again stooped
over the skeleton, silenced them all in imperious
tones.

Stand back, gentlemen ! In two moments
I can satisfy your curiosity as to who murdered
this woman."

The vicar only attempted to resist this command
; but the doctor, with a skilful and most
unceremonious thrust, forced him back into the
rest of the group ; and the next moment the

reverend arms were pinioned by Ned Mitchell's
strong hands.

Keep back, can't you ? " hissed Ned,
roughly, into his ear ; " murder will out, you
know ! And people might say such ugly things
if they thought you wanted to hide the
truth."

After this there was a sickening, death-like
pause, while the doctor's hands moved rapidly
about the horrible heap of human bones and
tattered finery. Then he sprang up, and made
quickly for the light. The rest followed,
huddled together, panting, bewildered, like a
flock of frightened sheep ; for the doctor's face,
old practitioner though he was, was livid and
tremulous with a great horror. Standing in
the open daylight, they found him looking at
something he held half concealed in his hand.
Mrs. Brander, Yernon, and Olivia Denison, stood
a little way off, watching him, but not daring to
come near. He closed his hand as the men
gathered round him.

Gentlemen," he began, gravely, in a very

low voice, " there are circumstances in this case
so revolting that I think that no good can come
of making them public. But you shall judge.
T have found, inside the remains of that poor
girl, a ring which, there can be no doubt, was
the property of the murderer. In spite of the
decayed state of the body, I can undertake to
say that this ring was swallowed by the girl just
before her death. Here," and he held up his
closed hand, "is the ring. Shall I show it
you?"

No ! " said the Vicar of Eishton, sharply.

They all turned to look at him.

Why not ? " asked the doctor, quietly.

Meredith Brander had recovered the composure
which, indeed, he could scarcely be said fora
moment to have lost.

What good would it do ? " he asked, gazing
blandly in the doctor's face.

Doctor Harper returned his look with astonishment,
which became almost admiration.

Well," he answered, " it would show up
the most remarkably perfect specimen of a

consummate humbug that I have ever had the
honour of meeting."

A curious thing had happened before this
short colloquy was ended. The rest of the group
had gradually dispersed, and left the two men
alone together. As he uttered the last words
the doctor also turned abruptly away, so that
the vicar was left by himself. He did not seem
disconcerted, but walked, with a half-smile on
his face, in the direction of the churchyard gate.
His wife, whose handsome face was as pale as
that of a corpse, and whose limbs tottered under
her, moved, with faltering step, in the same
direction. At the gate stood Abel Squires, who
stood back to allow the vicar to pass out first ;
but Meredith Brander would not allow this.
He turned to him with a kindly nod.

Well, Abel," said he, " I'm afraid this is a
sad business for somebody."

I'm afeard so too, sir," replied Abel, with
an immovable face.

We must hush it up. I'm sure you would
not like any harm to come to my brother."

No fear o' that, sir," said Abel. " I could
prevent that."

Why, how so ? "

"Ah wur wi' him all that evening'. An' if
he hadn't kept my tongue quiet all these years
hissed, truth would ha' been ait long ago."

The vicar went through the gate without
another word ; but before he had taken many
steps in the lane outside, he felt an arm thrust
through his. It was his brother Vernon, who
pressed his arm warmly two or three times before
he spoke.

Cheer up, old chap ! " he whispered, huskily.
For Evelyn's sake and the children's we can
get it kept quiet still."

Then, for the first time, Meredith threatened
to break down. He wrung his brother's hand
with a force which made Yernon turn white,
and when he answered, it was with sobs in his
voice.

I'm a scoundrel, Yernie," he almost gasped.
But if you save me again, on my soul I'll be
better to them than many an honest man."

THE VICAR'S CONFESSION.

Ned Mitchell, although he had let Meredith
Brander off easily at the moment of the discovery
of the body, had no intention of letting
his sister's murderer escape the just punishment
of his crime. The discovery of the vicar's ring
inside the poor girl's remains had not been altogether
unexpected by Ned, and by the doctor,
whom he had taken into his confidence. He
had had the wit to connect the vicar's loss of his
ring, which the girl must have stolen and
secreted unnoticed by him in the course of their
last fatal interview, with the strange threat
Nellie Mitchell had uttered to Martha Lowndes.
He had confided his suspicions to the doctor,
who had thus been on the alert to prevent
Meredith from touching the remains of the
murdered girl before he himself had examined
them.

After a few words of explanation to old Mr.
Williams, and a little substantial advice to the
two workmen who had dug out the skeleton,
Ned marched off with Abel Squires in the direction
of Bishton Vicarage. On the way they
passed "Vernon Brander, who wished to stop
Ned ; but the latter hurried on, and to all the
entreaties he tried to utter turned a deaf ear.

If you've been fool enough to hold your
tongue for ten years, and bear the blame of
somebody else's crime, that's nothing to do with
me. You may talk till your tired, but my
sister's murderer shall get what he deserves."

And he walked on stubbornly with the tramp.

When they reached the Vicarage, and asked
to see the vicar, they were shown into the
drawing-room, and left waiting there for some
minutes. When the door opened it was Mrs.
Brander, instead of her husband, who came in.

What, has he run away already ? " asked
Ned, in a hard, jeering tone.

No, my husband does not yet know you
are here," she answered, in a very sad voice. " I

knew you would come, and so I told the servant
to announce your arrival to me."

What's the good of that ? " asked Ned,
roughly. " You've done no harm, and we've
nothing to do with you, except that we're going
to set you free from a rascal."

Abel Squires had withdrawn to the farthest
window, and tried to hide himself behind the
curtain. Rough fellow as he was, to hear a
man speak in a bullying tone to that beautiful,
dignified lady was too much for him.

Mrs. Brander had never in her life before
looked so handsome as she looked now, standing
erect before this coarse man, with a flush of
deep humiliation in her cheeks, and passionate
entreaty softening her proud eyes.

"But my children, my poor children; they
have done less harm in the world than your sister
did, and if you hurt my husband you sacrifice
them. Think of that. You have children of your
own. You don't dote on them," passionately,
any more than I do on mine ; therefore you can
enter into my feelings. Is it fair, is it just, that

they should suffer? I don't appeal for myself,
for you don't like me. But just think of this :
for ten years I have been a dutiful wife to this
man, who was unfaithful to me even in my fresh
youth, when I was beautiful, so they said, and
loving and devoted. Listen. I knew of the
murder on the night he committed it ; for he
came straight back with stained hands, and a
face I never shall forget. Do you not think
that was something to forgive? But I did it,
and I implore you to do it too. I am not asking
you an impossible thing, for I have done it myself.
And think under what circumstances ! "

But Ned remained as hard as nails.

I suppose  no offence to you, madam 
your motives were not entirely unselfish. And
even if they were, that's no business of mine. If
you chose to put up with him, that was your
look-out. I came back here to punish my sister's
murderer, and I'm not going to be made a fool
of by a woman when the game 's in my own
hands."

Ned spoke the more harshly, that he was

really rather touched by her beauty and her
high spirit. There was something in her frank,
straightforward manner of pleading more to his
taste than any amount of tearful, hysterical incoherence
would have been. But Mrs. Brander
had a most unexpected ally near at hand.
Trumpet-thump came Abel Squires, with his
wooden leg, out of his hiding-place. He did
not look at the lady, but going straight up to
Ned, jerked his thumb over his shoulder in the
direction of where she was standing.

"Hold hard, Mester Mitchell," said he,
without moving a muscle of his dried-up face ;
"Ah didn't bargain fur this when Ah coom here
to-day. A woman's a woman. An' t' woman
ye're so soft abaft's dead, but t' woman ye're so
hard on's alive. Steady their, Mester Mitchell,
or Ah'll lev to swear Ah killed t' lass mysen."

The poor woman broke down at these words
from the rough tramp; she turned away abruptly
to hide the tears which sprang to her eyes. Ned,
who was hard, brusque, and determined, but not
inhuman, moved uneasily about the room.

Women have no business to interfere in
these matters," said he, angrily.

Mrs. Brander saw that there was hope. She
moved nearer to him, clasping her hands, not in
supplication, but because they would twitch and
tremble, and so betray the anguish she was
suffering. She tried to speak, but couldn't.
But with one piteous look out of her proud eyes,
she turned away again.

Well," said Ned, in very ill-tempered
tones, " we're wasting our time here, Abel, and
Mrs. Brander's. So, please, madam, let us see
your husband, and have done with him."

But Mrs. Brander hastened to intercept him
on his way to the door.

You will not be too hard," she pleaded, ina
breaking voice. " You are not vindictive, I
am sure."

I beg your pardon, madam, that's just what
I am," snarled Ned. " And if I'm fool enough
not to insist on the hanging he deserves, I'm
not going to let him off scot free, I can tell you."

Of course not, of course not," said she, in a

tone of great relief. " He has done wrong 
great wrong; and lie must suffer for it  we
must suffer for it. Only don't expose him.
Anything but that."

"Yes, anything but what he deserves, of
course. Let us pass, madam, please. He is in
the library, I suppose ? "

I suppose so," she faltered.

Ned turned round abruptly.

You suppose so ! Well, if he 's given us
the slip, and left you to bear the brunt of it all,
it'll be the worse for him."

Mrs. Brander drew herself up in the old,
proud way, and spoke with her accustomed cold
haughtiness in addressing a person she disliked.

You need not be afraid, Mr. Mitchell. I
can stand by a criminal husband; I would not
by a cowardly one."

Do you call it courageous, then, to kill a
woman, and let another man bear the blame for
ten years? " asked Ned.

Mrs. Brander did not answer. She led the
way across the hall to the study, and knocked.

Come in," called out the vicar in his
usual voice.

She opened the door, and signed to the two
men to follow her in. Abel would have slunk
away, but Ned Mitchell kept a tight hold on his
arm. Both, however, kept in the background,
near the door, while the lady went up to her
husband, and laid her hand upon his shoulder.
He leant back in his comfortable chair, pen still
in hand. He had been busy writing, and the
table was covered with large sheets of MS. He
faced the two intruders with an air of mild annoyance,
which would have made an onlooker
think that he was the injured person. Ned,
with astonishment, which he would not admit
by word or look, examined the bland, fair face,
with its healthy complexion, frank blue eyes,
broad white forehead, and saw on it no trace of
shame, guilt, or even of anxiety. It was his
wife's face which bore all these signs. As she
stood, upright and daring, by her husband's side,
handsome, majestic, and brave, Ned Mitchell
felt that to deal with Meredith as he deserved

while she remained there was impossible. He
half turned, as if anxious to put off the interview.
The vicar changed his position, wheeling
his chair round, so that he could face the two
men.

Well," he said, " you wish to speak to me,
do you not ? "

His tone was mildly peremptory.

Yes, we do. But what we have to say we
wish to say to you alone."

Go, my dear," said Meredith, turning
kindly to his wife.

She hesitated, and he pushed her gently away
from him. Then she stooped, kissed his forehead,
and with an imploring, yet still dignified,
look into Xed's reluctant eyes as she passed him,
she slowly left the room.

Now," said Mitchell, in a louder, more
assured tone, as if much relieved, " we've got an
account to settle with you."

"Well, sit down, and let us have it
out."

Meredith was not in the least discomposed.


He took up the pen he had been using, wiped it
carefully, and then crossing his legs and clasping
his hands over them, assumed the attitude in
which he was accustomed to give private advice
or consolation to members of his flock.

I'm afraid we are interrupting you," said
Ned, ironically; so he prepared to sit down,
which Abel shyly refused to do.

Not at all. I was writing my sermon for
next Sunday ; but as I suppose it lies with you
whether I shall be allowed to preach it, I can't
complain of your visit as an interruption."

You take this business pretty coolly," cried
Ned, losing patience.

Meredith looked at him with a sudden flash
of fire in his blue eyes, a spark of the same
fierce spirit which he had revealed to Ned on the
night when he conquered and controlled the
bloodhounds at the cottage.

Do you suppose that I have kept my head
for ten years to lose it now ? "

Ned was taken aback. There was a pause
before he said, in almost a respectful voice 

You admit everything, then ? "

I admit everything you know, of course.
This man here could prove whatever I might
deny. Besides, everybody knows that ring is
mine ; I did not know until to-day how I lost it,
as you may guess ; else I should have been prepared
with some story."

Ned Mitchell, who had brought the ring
with him and had just produced it, thinking to
confound the vicar, slipped it back into his
pocket with uncertain fingers.

And you are prepared for the consequences
? "

As much prepared as a man ever is for a
very unpleasant contingency."

Even if the contingency is  what the law
prescribes for discovered murderers ? "

You mean hanging ? "

Ned Mitchell nodded, and the vicar paused.

I won't say that I am prepared for that ; I
can't say that I ever contemplated such a possibility
seriously. It would be a terrible precedent
to hang a vicar. I should probably get off as

of unsound mind and be confined * during her
Majesty's pleasure.' "

And if they shouldn't be so lenient ? "

Then I should go through with it as well
as a man may."

And if I let you off the full penalty," said
Ned, wondering if it were possible to disturb
this stolid serenity, " what would you feel towards
me ? "

"Nothing," answered the vicar, promptly.
You would do it, not for my sake, but out
of admiration for my wife, pity for my children,
and because my arrest would involve my
brother's, as an accessory after the fact. He
saw me immediately after the  the deed ; the
crime, in fact ; and he concurred, if he did not
assist, in the concealment of the body, as Abel
here probably knows."

Ay," said Abel Squires, who was standing,
awkwardly, as near the door as possible.
Mester Vernon and me had walked nigh all
t' way from Sheffield together, and we heard
cries o' ' Murder ! ' An' Mester Vernon he left

me, an' he jumped o'er t' wall into t' churchyard,
an' when he coom back he looked steered
like, and his right hand wur stained red, as
if he'd held another hand that wur redder still.
An' somehow Ah guessed whose hand it wur as
he'd been holding."

Abel, after delivering this speech in a
mumbling, shame-faced manner, ended abruptly,
and looked at the door, as if he felt that his unpleasant
mission was over. The vicar listened
with interest, and nodded assent to the latter
portion of the  tramp's words. Ned Mitchell
continued to gaze at Meredith like a bear baulked
of his prey.

I don't believe you've even felt much
remorse all these years," he said, savagely.

The vicar faced him frankly.

"To tell the truth, I haven't," he said.
That's not in my temperament. I suppose
this sounds especially remarkable because I ama
clergyman. But my profession was forced
upon me ; I had to put an unnatural curb upon
myself, and succeeded in attaining a pitch of

outward decorum such as none of my family
had ever reached before. But the strain was
too great, for I am not by temperament virtuous
; none of my family are. Vernon has an
accident, and not his nature, to thank for his
superiority. That is all I have to say."

The vicar leaned back in his chair, as if
weary of the discussion.

Then you don't seem to have any conscience,"
said Ned, regarding him in bewilderment.


Not much, I suppose," answered the vicar ;
"though, indeed, lately I have had troubled
nights, and shown the family tendency towards
somnambulism ; so my wife tells me. And in
rather an unfortunate way," he added, with a
half smile.

As the vicar finished speaking Ned came
forward with his ponderous tread, laid his hand
heavily on the writing-table, and looked down
at the clergyman's bland face with the air of
a strong man who has definitely made up his
mind.

Now then, parson, I'll tell you what you'll
have to do. You take that pen that you've
just been waiting your precious sermon with, and
you write a detailed confession of your intrigue
with my sister, your visits to her at night, }T>ur
correspondence with her, the way in which you
murdered her, and the way in which you disposed
of her body. Then sign your name and
put the date in full, and me and Abel here
will oblige you by putting our signatures as
witnesses."

And if I do this, what follows ? " asked
the vicar, taking up the pen and examining
the nib.

Then you get my permission to leave this
country for any other you choose with your wife
and children. And as long as you keep away,
this paper will never go out of my possession."

And if I don't do this ? "

<c What's the good of going into that ? "

The eyes of the two men met, and they
understood each other. "Without wasting more
words, Meredith turned to the table, invited

Ned with a gesture to sit down, and proceeded
to draw up the prescribed confession. This he
did fully and frankly, adding at the end certain
graceful expressions of contrition, which Ned,
reading the document over carefully, took for
what they were worth. The main body of the
composition satisfied him, however ; and after
appending his own signature to the confession
as a witness, and insisting on Abel's adding
his, he sealed up the paper with great solemnity.
Then, intimating to Meredith Brander that the
sooner he carried out the remaining part of the
compact and left the country, the better it would
be for him, he left the room with the current
of farewells, and hastened out of the house, to
avoid what he called " another scene with the
woman."

Once outside he looked back at the Vicarage
with great interest.

If one had to be a rascal," said he, with
some irrepressible admiration, " that's the sort of
rascal one would choose to be."

Then Abel Squires left him and hobbled off,

and Ned was left to his pipe and his reflections,
both which he chose to enjoy, not at his garden
gate as usual, but at the bottom of the hill, outside
Eishton Hall farmyard.

Before he had been there more than a
few minutes the event he was prepared for
took place. Olivia Denison, pale, excited, tearful,
yet radiant, came to the gate, looking out
anxiously. Seeing Ned, she ran out to him
with a cry.

Oh, Mr. Mitchell," she said, almost in a
whisper, " I must ask you to forgive me. I had
such unjust thoughts of you. I thought, until
the night before last, that you meant to ruin
Vernon, in spite of your promise."

'turn," said Ned; "you hadn't much faith
in your lover, now, had you, to think him
capable of ? "

Hush ! never mind that. You see, I must
have felt at the bottom of my heart that he was
really good ; for I loved him all the time just
the same."

That doesn't follow at all. "Women always

go by contraries. The more of a villain a man
is, the more a woman likes him. Look at the
vicar here, and the way his wife sticks to him.
And look at me, as honest a fellow as ever lived,
and what do yon think my wife cares for me or
my affections ? Not a single straw, I tell yon."

Well," said Olivia, smiling, " considering
the small amount of affection yon seem to waste
on her, I think it's just as well for her happiness
that she is not dying for love of yon."

Ah, you're full of these new-fangled notions
about the equality of the sexes. Now, I say,
men and women are different. The man does
all the hard work, and even if he goes a little bit
off the straight sometimes, it's no more than
he has a right to, provided he fills the mouths
at home. The woman has nothing to do but
look after the home and children, and mend
their clothes and her husband's. And if she
can't find time besides to be devoted to her
husband, and to think him the finest fellow on
earth in return for what he does for her, why,
she aunt worth her salt : that 's all. Now that 's

my marriage code, Miss Denison, though I can
see by your face it isn't yours."

I really haven't considered the subject
much," replied Olivia, demurely, but with a
bright blush.

You might do worse, though, than consider
it, now that things have shaped themselves a
bit," said Xed, in a dry tone. " Our dear friend
the vicar here is going to leave this country, inconsideration
of a certain little matter being
hushed up."

Oh, I'm so glad ! " interrupted Olivia, with
a deep-drawn breath of relief ; " that is good of
you, Mr. Mitchell. For it would have been
dreadful  dreadful ! "

Ned was looking away over the corn-fields,
where his sharp eyes detected a figure he
recognised wandering about in an aimless
manner.

I think you'd better take a walk out into
the meadows there," he said, after a minute's
pause, turning again to the young lady, with a
kindly look on his hard face. " It will do you

good after all the excitement and bothering of
this morning."

Olivia blushed again.

Thank you," she said, with a proud turn of
her head. " I don't care to go out again this
afternoon ; the air is much too oppressive."

Oh, all right," said Ned, with a dry nod j
then I mustn't keep you out here talking in
the 'oppressive' air, I suppose. Good-day, Miss
Denison."

Good-bye," she said, gently, holding out
her hand, which he shook with a firm pressure.

Then he walked up the hill, talking to himself.


These Old Country lasses are fine creatures,"
he meditated. " There's Mrs. B., whom
I didn't care for, and Miss D., whom I did, and
I'm blest if they haven't both got too good a
spirit to be married at all. Yet one wouldn't
care to see them old maids, either  nor yet men
nor yet angels. These high-spirited ladies,
who can think and act for themselves, don't
seem to fit in somehow. One would feel they

were kind of too good for one. Give me a nice,
comfortable lass, whom }~ou needn't study anymore
than a potato ; you know what to be at
with one of them. By-the-bye, now I suppose
I must take ship and see how my own ' potato '
is getting on'

Nevertheless, from the top of the hill he
looked down rather sentimentally in the direction
of the old farm. As he did so he caught
sight of a girl's tall figure in the meadows. He
laughed out maliciously 

She's gone to meet him. I thought she
would. I'd have let off half a dozen scoundrels
to give that lass her heart's desire, that I
would."

And he watched her till a rising m the
meadow ground and a thick flowering hedge
hid her from sight.

After a few minutes' arguing with herself,
Olivia, w T ho guessed the reason of Xed Mitchell's
suggestion of a walk in the fields, decided that
she ought without delay to let Vernon Brander
know the result of the inter vie w between his

brother and the colonist. So she darted through
the gate and across the road with the agility of a
deer, in spite of the " oppressive air." So excited
was she, so full of joy at the 'turn t affairs had
taken, that she almost ran along the footpath,
beside the sweet-scented hedges, with an occasional
little leap or bound of most undignified
happiness. Thus it happened that when she
came unexpectedly face to face with Yernon
Brander, on rounding a thicket of bushes and
small trees, she was springing into the air with
her face radiant with delight, and a soft song 
something about " birds " and " love "  upon
her lips. Vernon, on his side, looked, if anything,
even more haggard and woe-begone than
usual. Both stopped short, and Olivia, who
had become on the instant very subdued, drew a
deep breath of confusion.

"Mr. Brander," she began, in a cool, almost
cold, voice, " I  I  er  I have just met Ned
Mitchell, and I think you ought to know what
he says."

For Heaven's sake, yes : tell me ! "

He is going to hush it all up, on condition
that your brother leaves the country altogether."

Yernon drew a deep breath of relief, and
almost reeled against the fence which protected
the thicket on one side.

Thank God ! " he whispered.

And he put one hand to his face, as if to
shut out the fearful picture his imagination and
his fears had been conjuring up. Olivia waited
impatiently as long as she could. At last, when
she could bear this neglect no longer, she said,
rather tartly 

Mrs. Brander will have to go too."

Of course  of course, she will go with her
husband."

Yernon was still in a dazed state, not yet
understanding what a great change in his prospects
of happiness the day's events had
made.

I think it was very silly of you to keep

silence all these years just to please her. It

was she who made you, I suppose  came to you,

and wheedled you. Men are so easily coaxed,"

P

continued Olivia, disdainfully, with her head in
the air.

She had never "been curt and dictatorial, like
this, with him before. Poor Vernon, quite unskilled
in the wiles of her sex, was abashed and
bewildered.

Yes," he admitted, humbly ; " she came
to me and begged me not to say anything if
people suspected me. And, you see, I had been
so fond of her, and she was in delicate health,
and I had no wife or children to be hurt by
what people might think of me ; and so I promised."


And she made you promise not to marry,
didn't she?"

Well, yes. Poor thing, she had to do the
best she could for her husband and children ;
and, of course, she thought if I married I should
let out the secret to my wife, and my wife would
insist on having things explained."

I should think so," said Olivia.

And now," said Vernon, who was getting
more and more downcast under the influence of

this surprising change in her, " I'm too old and
too sour to marry, aud I think I shall go away
with them, and have my little Kitty to console
me."

Yes," said Olivia, quietly, her voice losing
suddenly all its buoyancy as well as all its
momentary sharpness ; " I think that will be a
very good plan. You will let us know when
you intend to start, won't you, for my father
and mother owe you an apology first ? Now, I
must be getting back. Good-evening."

Dull Vernon began at last to have a glimmer
of insight into the girl's secret feelings. He
shook hands with her, let her walk as far as the
very end of the field, noticing with admiration,
which had suddenly, after the strain of the
morning, again grown passionate, her springing
walk and graceful, erect carriage. Then he ran
after her on the wings of the wind, and placed
himself, panting, with his back to the gate she
was approaching.

I'm sorry to trouble you," he said, as he
looked with sparkling eyes into her face, "but you

seem to forget I've lent you fifty pounds. I
shall want it back to pay my passage."

Olivia caught her breath, and her face, which
was wet with tears, grew happy again.

I'd forgotten all about it," said she, in a
tremulous voice, half saucily, half demurely.
But, anyhow, you can't have it."

"And why not, Miss Denison?" asked
Vernon, coming a step nearer.

Because I  I don't want you to go away,"
answered she.

And she fell into his arms without further

invitation, and gave him a tender woman's kiss,

an earnest of the love and sympathy he had

hungered for these ten years !

*****

The true story of the murder at St. Cuthbert's
never became commonly known. At the
inquest which was opened on the remains found
in the crypt, nobody who had anything to tell
told anything worth hearing. But, then, nobody
was very anxious to discover the truth, for
rumours too dreadful for investigation began to

fly about ; and nobody was astonished when, the
health of his children requiring a change to a
warmer climate, the Reverend Meredith Brander
got, by the interest of his uncle, Lord Bennington,
an appointment at Malta, for which place he
started, with his wife and family, without
delay.

The vacant living of Ashton was given by
Lord Stannington to his other nephew, Yernon ;
and Olivia, though lamentably unlike the popular
ideal of a clergyman's wife, became as much
idolised by the poor of the parish as her husband
was already.

John Oldshaw got Ashton Hall Farm ; for
Mr. Denison's friends persuaded him to give up
farming while he had still something left to lose.
But the farmer did not long survive his coveted
happiness. Dying in a fit of apoplexy, he left
his broad acres in the care of his son Mat, who,
instead of setting up as a country gentleman, as
his sisters declared he would do if he had any
spirit, married little Lucy, made her a good
husband, and remained for ever, in common

with his wife, the idolatrous slave of her late
mistress.

Their bennet modern one woman in t'
world," he would say, " too good for Parson
Brander; hoot their be one, and that's his
wife."

But though "Parson Brander" himself agreed
with this, he was mistaken ; for, like every other
good woman, she was the better, and the little
world around her was the better, for the fact
that she was the noble and true mate of a
noble and true man.

