CHAPTER I.

Fresh tears stood on her cheeks, as doth the honey-dew

Upon a gather'd lily."

Titus Antoninus, Act iii. Sc. 1.

For where thou art, there is the world itself,
And where thou art not, desolation."

Henry YL, Act iii. Sc. 2.

The slight approach of night, which the
Scotch call the gloaming and we call
twilight, was stealing over the dewy landscape
when Dorcas neared the great ash-tree.
The silence around her and the
lateness of the hour rather frightened her,
but something in her own thoughts made
her still more a coward. Just at that
moment there was no freedom in her

VOL. II. B

life, no "freedom in her love," but all
the heavy shame of a stolen meeting.

Under the thick boughs she waited, for
after all she was the first to arrive.

The sound of footsteps near by startled
her; looking, she saw Maynard close to
her.

'' You are punctual," he said, in a voice
which seemed almost strange to himself.

She met his eyes, and then, shivering
with a sudden fear, shrank back from him
with a swift prayer on her lips for the
Almighty's protection.

*' No, no ; do not fear me ! do not shrink
from me, Dorcas ! Unhappy as I am, you
may safely trust me. It rests with you
whether this is to be our parting or
not."

With me ? "

"Yes. Is your love great enough to
make some sacrifice for my sake ? "

*' What sacrifice?"

*' Yill you consent to a private marriage

t

Oh, no, no ! "

You would be mj wife as much as if you
had been married openly, but  but it would
be my ruin if the truth were known. Could
you bear the shame of being supposed to
be in another  another relation to me until
I am free to proclaim my marriage ? "

In making his astonishing and ungenerous
proposal he forbore to look at
her, while his face flushed hotly with shame.
Before he had really spoken the cruel,
irrevocable words, he had neither realized
the baseness of his proposal nor how
terrible it would be for her to hear it.

Terrible, indeed ! He saw nothing of
the alarm, surprise, shame, and grief which
one and all found expression in her beautiful
face ; but he was conscious of a slight
B 2

movement suggestive of pain in the still
figure before she slowly turned from him
in silence.

She did not love him less, because she
found him less worthy ; but there was the
shock, the pain of finding him selfish.
Hitherto she had blamed herself only,
while excusing him; laying all the fault
of the wrong to Edith on herself ; but now
something of the first exquisite romance
of her passion for him was lost, never to
return : he was even as other men !

She went to the river-bank, and leaned
half for support against the railings, while
she watched the quiet flow of the water
beneath.

A week ago she would have never met
him clandestinely, and now she was positively
listening to a proposal which would
break her father's heart !

Since that fatal Saturday afternoon she

had deteriorated. She was naturally a
proud, pure girl, but the shame of having
betrayed her love to him,  the shame of
feeling that all the sweetness and pride
of her womanhood lay at his feet,  produced
a sad change in her. Edith's love
and forbearance were forgotten, and with
the forgetfulness there had come a new
recklessness ; for the first delicate bloom
was lost when she allowed, when, alas !
she had wished for, his embrace.

He was again by her side. He knew
she was inexpressibly wounded.

Dorcas, I know mj proposal has
wounded and offended you, but do you
think I would have made it if there were
any other way ? "  laying his hand on hers
which rested on the rail. She gently
withdrew it with a slight shiver.

His words and action suddenly as with
a flash recalled the whole danger of her

position  a private marriage which would
entail, perhaps, years of waiting and suspense.


Would my father know I was married
to you ? " she asked, with her eyes searchingly
on his.

No, he could not, Dorcas. Jo one
could know it."

Captain Maynard, you say you love
me, and yet  yet you would sully your
love. Is it love that desecrates ? To have
your wife supposed to be your mistress !
Oh, how terrible ! What  what can I
do ? You know only too well the power
you possess over me ; but I would rather
die than let my father think I had 
sinned ! "

Sinned ? As my wife, Dorcas, you
could not sin."

'' Yes, I should, against my father in
deceiving him, and against Miss Fleming,

who  who has trusted me, and tried to
save me from hearing this from you. Ah !
to leave one so noble and to come tome
I "

I know she is everything a woman
ought to be. I know there is hardly a
man living worthy of her love, and yet,
Dorcas, I cannot love her as I love you.
Tell me, can this strange passion we call
love be ordered in its course ? You know
it cannot be. You are drawn to me, as I
am drawn to you, by some irresistible
power that we cannot explain. Is it our
fault ? Is it a sin ? I do not think so.
Five weeks ago I came here with the full
determination of becoming better acquainted
with Miss Fleming ; I wished to
learn something more of her nature, in the
view of our ultimate marriage. You know
what happened. I met you, loved you,
and though I ought as an honourable man

to have left you, I could not leave you.
You said just now I should desecrate my
love in allowing you to be thought other
than my wife. Do you not understand
how painful any slur cast on you would be
to me, your husband ? But I am so bound,
I cannot be your husband openly, unless I
sacrifice more than I am brave enough to
lose. You will say, 'Why don't I leave
you altogether until I am free to wed
you ? ' But, Dorcas, I cannot leave you
now, since you have confessed I am dear
to you. The secret would probably be of
short duration, and then you would be my
acknowledged wife before all the world ! "
It would be impossible to give any
idea of the winning tenderness of his
manner to her. She, trembling,  her
colour changing,  was more moved and
much nearer to yielding than if he had
been more impassioned. Wrong or not,

his words filled lier with the most exquisite
pain and happiness blended.

What ought she to do ? "Was her happiness
in life of such consequence ?

Captain Maynard, even if you were
free, there are so many other things to
divide us. You know how very different
my position is from yours. Though my
dear father has in his kindness educated
me quite beyond my station, yet  yet I am
sure you understand how very, very dear
my relatives are to me "  here she could
not repress a sob  " perhaps dearer because
I am conscious sometimes of a little
division and difference between us."

Do you think I would be so cruel, or
so unmanly, as to divide you from them ? "
he said reproachfully.

No ; you would not wish to give me
that pain ; but  but there might be occurrences
which would be a perpetual worry

to you. Oh ! believe me, if you study
the happiness of each of us, it would be
better to part here this night for ever ! "

"I am the best judge of my own happiness,
and I think of yours too. Dorcas,
you know you would be happy with
me."

Yes, if I could ever forget I had deceived
and brought shame and trouble
upon those at home ; but I should never
forget  it would kill me ! " she said in a
low tone.

Shame? There would be no shame,"
he said angrily, haughtily. " You are conjuring
up morbid fancies. When a woman
is with her own knowledge a wife, what on
earth does it matter what other people
may say or think ? "

Then gently, persuasively, 

Dorcas, promise me you will meet mein
London in a few days, when I have made

arrangements. We must be married by
special licence at some quiet church, and
then I will take you to some lovely spot on
the Continent."

I cannot  dare not meet you ! '*

Then," with a sudden displeasure,
why are you here unless you meant to
yield to my wishes ? "

She made no rejoinder. It seemed the
culmination of distress to be reproached by
him for being there.

I don't understand you," he continued
haughtily; " you confess I am dear to you,
and yet you will give me no proof of your
love. You. will do nothing to give merest
and happiness. You,  but thank God
you are too innocent to know the extent
of the injury you cause me. Dorcas, I
appeal to you  I appeal to your womanhood
to your tenderness, not to send me
from you ! "

But I must send you from me ! " lie
sobbed. " I appeal to your manhood to be
generous and not to tempt me ! "

And this is a woman's love 1 " he exclaimed,
with a passionate bitterness ; '' to
be safe in refusing all comfort to her lover !
But hear me ; if I leave you now, it is
because I am so weak I cannot bear to see
your distress ; but, Dorcas, there will come
a time when I will brook no refusal, you
shall be my wife. Ah ! don't look so
frightened, I am violent with you, but
remember the provocation. Don't cry so,
unless  unless you wish to break my heart.
Oh, to cause you such bitter tears, when
you are dearer than life, dearer than life,
my own darling ! " he exclaimed, with tears
in his eyes.

Then, feeling keenly all she was suffering
for his sake, the nobler impulses of protection
and tenderness awakened within

Ili, and, when his arms were around
her, and her head was on his breast, he
soothed her with words and caresses, so
sweet and so gentle, that some comfort
crept into her heart amidst her bitter
humiliation.

*' No, no ; pray release me ! " she said
faintly, and feeling overborne by his powerful
pleading.

Ah, why do you shrink from me so,
when you love me ? Dorcas, you understand
that from henceforth you belong tome.
If I wait for years, you must still be
mine at last. I have implored you to end
the painful time of waiting, but you have
refused me. I cannot force your inclination;
only believe, that when you will surrender
your life to me, I . . . Dorcas, must
we part ? Will you be happy, knowing I
am not so ? " turning to her with a dangerous
appeal.

*' Happy ! " she exclaimed, with passionate
reproach ; " can any one be happy
who has done so wrongly as I ?"

Then she covered her face with her
hands, and her sobs burst forth afresh.

Dorcas, Dorcas, don't ; I can't bear
your tears. I see we must part, bitter as
the parting is to me. But remember, dear,
you are mine  mine until death separates
us. I leave you now in obedience to your
wish, but I think you cannot know how
dear, how precious you are to me. Forgive
me all, sweet one. Perhaps you would
have been happier if you had never met
me, since I have troubled and disturbed
you so. Now come, it is late and chill for
you to be out ; besides, I, in my selfish
wish to meet you quite alone, may have
harmed you. One last kiss  no, do not
shrink, you are my betrothed wife; one
day, darling, you shall occupy your rightful

place, and then there will be an end to all
these miserable subterfuges'*

Presently they were walking side by side
towards the homestead. The mists had
arisen from the river, and in the faint
moonlight produced a hundred strange
forms, half-ghostly, to those two silent
people  silent, because the keenness of
parting was there. The proud man, of
illustrious ancestry, walking hand-in-hand
with the yeoman's daughter, in this quiet
night among shadows  but the man reverenced
the pale girl by his side. It was
spirit to spirit ; no question of caste could
divide them. She felt as if in some terrible
dream. He little knew how tempted
she had been to yield ; his unhappiness, his
pleading, and the expression of his love
had combined to storm all the forces of her
resistance. At the gate leading to the
house stood Hephzibah.

Ye are late, Miss Dorcas, the master
and the mistress are just a-going to bed''
Hephzibah had seen the leave-taking a few
minutes before. '' Oh, my dearie," she whispered,
" but ye should na' ha' met him.
Please Almighty God, no one didn't see
'ee. Now do 'ee go up quietly to bed, they
think ye there already."

So Dorcas stole up to her room, and
there we must leave her with her love, her
grief, and her repentance. . . .

The next evening she was alone in the
garden ; her father, mother, and Jim, were
away in the further meadows, helping in
the hay. She would have liked to go
too, but she thought her wretchedness
would be visible to all. Hephzibah, in the
kitchen, was singing an old psalm-tune to
those sweet words 

The Lord my pasture shall prepare,
And feed me with a Shepherd's care."

Dorcas sat in the arbour, with. clasped
hands, wishing she were dead. Ah, that
she  she should have fallen so ! Why
had the hideous revulsion come too late ?
Why had she allowed herself to drift
into love with another woman's lover?
There was the wrong now too plainly
visible  the wrong, the almost sin. Too
late she saw it all ; no humiliation from
her could now undo the error of the past
weeks ; no grief of hers atone for the sorrow
she had brought on a noble lady. Oh,
the unspeakable shame that was upon her !
the shame that wrong-doing ever brings
with such bitterness to pure and noble
natures. She knew very well that
death does not come at one's bidding.
Agony of mind seldom kills, though it may
prostrate every energy. No, she must live
on, with this terrible remorse her constant
companion  her last thought at night, her

VOL. II.

first in the morning  until God should
mercifully send some alleviation and forgiveness.
She wished she could throw
herself at Edith's feet, and sob out her contrition.
The thought of her ingratitude
and baseness to her was almost unendurable.
While these emotions had their
reflex in her white, worn face, a shadow
came before her.

Eeuben," she said, startled.

Yes, it is I, Dorcas."

She rose, trying hard to win back her
self-command; vainly, for she felt like a
criminal as she stood  white, and with the
traces of tears on her face. The man's
strong heart melted with compassion for
her distress.

"I am sorry to find you in trouble,
Dorcas."

She made no reply to his remark, but
said presently : " Did you want to see

father ? He is down in the great
meadow."

Nos I wanted to see you ; won't you sit
down again ? You look ill and tired," he
said, in his usual deliberate manner. *'I
came over last night, but you were not
here. I suppose I may speak to you without
fear of being overheard ? "

"Yes, if you wish," she replied faintly;
every one is away except Hephzibah."

*' Dorcas," he said very low, as if he
feared the very leaves around them should
hear his words, '' do yoa know the constant,
almost daily visits of Captain Maynard
here are becoming a subject of conversation
? "

She started, and blushed crimson. Something
like a groan came from him.

'' Do you know people dare to say he is
your lover? "

It is false," she said passionately,
c 2

"Would to God I could think it
were ! "

He is nothing to me."

If lie were nothing to you, would you
have parted from him as you parted last
night, by the river? Would you have
allowed him to kiss you  ? "

Did you dare to spy on me, sir ? " she
asked passionately, in the midst of her
humiliation.

'' No, dear, I was there by mere accident ;
but I saw your grief, I heard your sobs,
and I was thankful it was I, and not a
miserable tale-bearer, who was there.
Dorcas, I am here to-night to entreat you
to meet him no more. What can come
of your meetings, of your love, but
(misery and shame ? "

Shame ! " she exclaimed, with flashing,
haughty eyes.

Yes, shame ; can he ask you to be his

wife, in the sight of God and man? Is
he not bound to Miss Fleming ? "

 Why do you torture me by saying all
this ? Do you suppose I don't know it ? "

"If you know it, dear, fly from the
temptation. Think how quickly a girl's
name may be lightly spoken of. God
forbid that yours ever should be ! Don't
you know, a whisper of reproach against
you would kill your father  a word against
you, his darling ? Oh, Dorcas, for his sake,
for your own sake  meet him no more.
I know how hard parting will be, but it
must be. He is not for you, he belongs
to another woman, and if you do not bid
him go, you do dear Miss Edith a cruel,
cruel wrong, and you encourage him to
sin."

She was sobbing hard, convulsive sobs ;
how agonizing were her grief and humiliation
to him who would have given his life

for hers ; who would have shielded her
from all sorrow, who had set her up in
his heart as an idol, as something too
beautiful and gracious for common daily
life; and now she was standing before
him broken-hearted, and not faultless !
Many, many thoughts were stirring him
as to the best method of saving her from
the blighting effects of the scandal that
must arise from her indiscretion. He had
said nothing against the man who was the
cause of her anguish. Anger he did feel
against him, but in his large-heartiness
he almost forgave him, knowing the greatness
of his temptation. Besides what he
had seen of Maynard's bearing towards her
the previous evening convinced him that
his love was pure as it was great and
abiding.

Eeuben," she said between her sobs,
I did try to shun him when  when I knew

how it was. I had no thouglifc of harm at
first; say you believe me."

You knoTT I believe you and pity you
from my very heart."

Oh, what shall I do ? I cannot live if
it is all known ! When, when you saw me
by the river last night, I  I had gone thereto
bid him good-bye. Eeuben, I hope I
shall never see him again  "

Just then the gate was opened, and someone
went towards the porch. Dorcas
trembled ; she knew the footsteps.

It is Captain Maynard," said Reuben,
looking into her face with the first suspicion
of her truth.

Don't look at me like that ; I have
not deceived you ; I thought he was gone.
Reuben, don't leave me ; I cannot meet
him alone."

Maynard was coming across the lawn towards
them. Reuben had grown very white

and stern, and alae men looked at each
other's faces as they gravely saluted.

I want a few minutes' speech alone
with Miss Finch, if she will allow me
them, Mr. Williams."

Dorcas asked me to stay with her,
Captain Maynard. If I stay, it is because
I think you are cruel in asking another
interview with her."

Really I do not recognize your right
to interfere in my affairs," said Maynard
coldly and haughtily.

I admit that I have no right, except
that I love Dorcas Finch, and that her
reputation is dearer to me than life."

The reputation of  of my future wife
must be equally dear to me, sir."

Your future wife ? "

Yes ; I am come to ask  to entreat if
you will  that Dorcas will promise to be
my wife when I am free to wed her."

But Miss Fleming, sir ? "

Miss Fleming lias released me; but as
that must be for various reasons a profound
secret at present, I trust to your
honour to respect my confidence. Jow I
think you will allow I too have a right to
ask for a few words witch Miss Finch."

The best of rights, Captain Maynard,"
replied Reuben huskily, and ashy-pale.
I beg your pardon ; I have done you an
injustice."

Yes ; but I respect your motive, and I
am thankful Dorcas has such a true and
honourable friend near her."

Then Reuben moved a little from the
arbour.

'' Reuben, don't leave me," cried Dorcas,
who of course had heard every word of
the preceding conversation.

Dorcas ! do you fear me, then ? " said
Maynard reproachfully.

I fear myself," site exclaimed as lie
confronted him with beseeching eyes  a
picture of lovely girlhood  with the first
expression of a woman's anguish, which
Eeuben never forgot, and at which he reluctantly
and sorrowfully gazed.

Fever had she looked to him so touchingly
beautiful as she did then. There
was both a sweet pride and deference in
her bearing to her lover  something that
expressed at once the depth of her affection
and also the power he possessed over
her. Then Reuben knew his own life
must for ever be a blank so far as regarded
her love. Those beseeching eyes  that
exquisite mouth, quivering with tenderness
and sorrow blended ! Great Heaven ; he
felt he had no business there. The scene
was too sacred to be witnessed; so he
walked a little apart, and as it were
guarded them from intrusion. He could

not hear their words, only the sound of
their voices, marvellously delicate and
sweet; the man's deep with passionate
persuasion, the girl's low and faltering
with denial, refusal again and again.
Lastly only Maynard's tones, who in despair
had burst into a passionate, indeed incoherent
appeal, hardly conscious of what he
was saying, or how he was wounding the
unhappy girl. But the more impassioned
he became, the firmer she grew in her
refusal, until he at length refrained when
he saw she was half-fainting. Then his
despair and anger changed to compassion,
and he entreated her forgiveness ;
taking her in his arms he kissed her in
what must be  farewell ; then releasing
her he hurried to Reuben.

You are a good man ; take care of
her ; I trust her to you, and for her sake
don't think too hardly of me." He held

out his hand, grasped the other's, and
was gone.

Dear Reuben, take me in," came from
a tall white swaying figure.

He sprang forward and caught her just
as she was falling. Suddenly she became
a dead weight in his arms, and he realized
that she had fainted. Tenderly, reverently
did the strong, loyal man carry her to the
hall, and, laying the beautiful still form
on the wide old-fashioned sofa, looked fora
moment on the loveliness which had
passed from him for ever.

The love that shall endure  the love
that shall endure," he repeated, bewildered
and desolated by the over-powering truth.
Then, like one in a dream, he called
Hephzibah, and left her with her young
mistress.

CHAPTER II.

"A woman sometimes scorns what best contents
her."

Rico Gentlemen of Verona Act iii. Sc. 1.

Revenged!
How should I be revenged ? "

Cymbeline, Act i. 6.

To Edith the blow which had fallen upon
her must be counted as a double misfortune.
Instead of having the prospect
of being, by her marriage to Maynard, a
very wealthy lady, by participating in the
French bequest, she would be either dependent
on her brother's goodness or have
to seek a home by her own industry.
Not a word could she breathe to either

father or brother that her engagement was
virtually broken oflP. Harry, with the
usual wisdom of young men, thought
Maynard was really carrying things too far
with Dorcas ; but he argued that he would
never be fool enough to throw Edith over,
and lose the chance of his inheritance.
Both he and his father had long looked
forward to the day of Edith's marriage, as
an event which would bring a new era to
the poverty-stricken family. She, when
Maynard's wife, could do miracles for
them. No more wretched economies then,
but a fine open hospitality, like that of the
good old days, of which Harry had a faint
but most pleasant remembrance.

On the Monday morning after Maynard's
abrupt departure Edith was in the
breakfast-room, her desk and wearying
account-books and bills before her. With
her slender income Maynard's long visit

had been a heavy tax, and now the amount
of her indebtedness made her heart sink.
Harry ought to go to London to be with a
coach, with the view of passing his examination
for the army; but possibly, if he
went to London, he would not work, but
get into idle, dissolute habits. Everything
was against her, she said to herself again
and again. She hated to be obliged
to deceive her father with regard to
the rupture of her engagement, but
she was well aware that if he knew the
truth the whole affair would become an
open scandal, and worse ; for, being a
trustee, he mioht enforce her marriage to
the unwilling Maynard.

Hemmed in on all sides  forced into a
state of deceit that was abhorrent, she felt
her position almost intolerable. Sometimes
a tormenting spirit urged her to blame
Dorcas ; and it needed all her generosity,

now she recognized the greatness of her
loss, to be just to one who had so greatly
injured her.

Poor Edith felt particularly irritable and
sore this morning, and she was especially
inclined to be angry with Harry, who had,
with his usual selfishness, just bought 
that is ordered  a new thirty-guinea breech-loader.
This bill was the last straw.

How abominable ! " said she angrily.

Just then the culprit came in whistling,
with his lazy hands in his pockets.

How I do hate to hear a man whistling
in the house," she said to him.

"What's the matter, Edith?" looking
provokingly calm and innocent.

The matter is this, that I think you
are going to ruin."

"What is the particular cause of ruin
to-day?"

Why did you order this new gun.

when you know I can't possibly pay for
it?"

Not pay for it ? Wliy, you'll soon be
flush enough of money, Edith."

In what way, pray ? "

'* Why, as soon as you are married."

I should advise you to order nothing
more on the supposition of my marriage.
There is no definite time fixed," she said
haughtily. " The gun is to go back ; you
understand, Harry."

I'll be shot if I send it back," he
muttered sulkily ; " I should look such a
fool."

Not half such a fool as you look when
you order a thing, knowing you can't pay
for it."

Perhaps Maynard will buy it."

Don't you dare to ask him," she
said vehemently. ** I have a suspicion
that you have borrowed money of him.

VOL. II. D

Have you, Harry? Answer me truthfully."


'' Only a pound or two," he answered
sulkily. '' What the dickens does it matter
to a rich fellow like him ? "

How much ? "

Well, perhaps twenty pounds."

Is it possible you have no self-respect?
How could you ask him for
money ? "

Why, I think that, as he will soon be
my brother-in-law, he's the most natural
person to ask for a loan."

Edith almost groaned ; it was impossible
to sit still, so she began to walk up and
down the room.

Harry, when are you going to read up
for your exam. ? Now Captain Maynard
has left there is no excuse for further idleness.
Have you no ambition ? Do you
want to be a miserable hanger-on all your

life ? Oh, if I were but in jour place, and
had jour opportunities ! "

'' Reading is such an awful grind this
hot weather."

"Yes, reading is always an awful grind
to sou ; sou will never take the trouble to
improve yourself. But there must be an
end to this state of things ; if sou want to
get into the arms, sou must wake up and
work hard. If sou would put half the
energy into jour reading that sou give to
cricket, sou would soon pass."

I hate reading."

Yere well, then ; there's an end of the
matter. After all, it is yourself who will
suffer ; and as sou are so dull and obtuse
and heartless, it is really only right sou
should suffer ! "

Anything else ? "

No ; only leave me in peace."

When he was gone she locked the door,
D 2

perhaps banged it to, for she was exasperated
almost beyond bearing that her
brother should have borrowed money from
him. He must be paid the 20/. or 30Z.,
for the worst of Harry was, he only told
half the truth. The question was how she
could possibly pay this debt, with scarcely
any money in hand. Hurt as she was, she
was still too angry to give way to tears,
though she felt half-choked.

She possessed a few trinkets,  a few of
her mother's, relics of more prosperous
days; some of them were valuable, and
Edith had always looked on them with
much veneration. When she was wondering
how she could pay this debt, she
remembered these jewels, and thought with
a strange, strange pang, that she would
never want jewellery any more. And then
the storm burst  a strong, proud woman's
grief, terrible because so rare.

An hour afterwards she had taken some
of those sacred old-fashioned bracelets, and
also a curious silver necklace, which was
much tarnished, and indeed looked so
shabby  though, even to an unpractised
eye, of beautiful workmanship  that Edith
hesitated about adding it to the other
jewels, which were certainly much more
respectable in appearance. These precious
articles were safely stowed away ina
little hand-bag, and then she drove
away towards the town in her pony-chaise.
There the pony was put up at
the inn, and she took a return ticket to
the cathedral city, where she hoped she
might sell her possessions in the little
bag.

Arrived at the city, she walked with
quick, decisive steps to the first jeweller's,
and, with much trepidation, took out her
poor old collection amidst the trays of

glittering stones. The head of the business
put on this spectacles, and judged
and weighed their merits with cold calculation.
He was some time pricing them,
and Edith turned faint and cold with
suspense. Ah ! that she, a Fleming, was
obliged to undergo such a humiliation !
The jeweller of course saw that his
customer was a lady, and, as there were
other people in the shop, he wrote down
his proposed price for each article. When
he handed her the sheet of paper, with the
sum total of 48. 10s., she was fairly
astonished. She had had no luncheon,
and for an instant felt her knees giving
way as she leaned against the counter ; she
managed, however, to bow her affirmative,
and to say faintly, " In gold," in answer
to his question.

By the time he returned with the
money she had recovered sufficiently to

feel that lie was able to walk. Never
did miser welcome coins more eagerly
than she did her precious treasure, holding
her bag with feverish anxiety as she
quickly went back to the station.

Poor Edith ! poor Edith ! Had Maynard
only been true, what magnificent
jewels she might have worn, instead of
walking with that poor little bag, and a
swelling, breaking heart, in the hot street
full of strangers !

She was back in time for dinner, and
no one knew where she had been. Old
John, who perhaps had a guess at her
business that morning, seemed as if he
could not do enough for her. She was
too tired and worn to eat her dinner,
and was refusing some curry he was
handing.

Now, Miss Edith, do 'ee try some. J
know 'tis good, for why, I made it myself.

And the rice, look now, every grain apart ;
so do 'ee have some."

I must, John, if you have taken so
much trouble for me."

His sister's worn face and sad, heavy
eyes were a reproach to Harry. He knew
she was right in all she said, but he hated
to be told what he ought to do by a
woman ! Edith was very gentle and sweet
to him when he came into the drawing-room.


Harry, 1 was too harsh to you this
morning ; we must not quarrel, dear ; we
must keep together, you and I, must we
not ? Let me help you in your work ; I
will do anything, everything, that you may
succeed, and make our old name glorious

yet."

Then she drew his fair young head
down to her, and kissed him with a
strange tenderness, and he felt his

cheek wet from lier tears when she had
left.

Three years afterwards, when he was
lying quietly "under the stars," desperately
wounded after a great battle, he remembered
that scene  remembered how his
sister's words and sweetness that night
had struck down into his heart, and given
him the first longing to distinguish himself.

The next evening at half-past ten, when
Edith was thinking of going to bed, John
entered, saying Captain Maynard had just
come, but would go to bed at once, as he
was so late. That, however, did not agree
with Edith's ideas of hospitality. She
went into the hall where John was lighting
a bed-room candle.

Do have some supper ; John can get
it directly for you," she said, going to him
with courteous welcome.

Well, perhaps a glass of sherry and a

biscuit. I am rather tired ; but I deserve
nothing, as I am so late."

Tired !  to Edith be looked ghastly.
Sbe went with bim into the dining-room,
while John brought wine and biscuits.

Is Sir William very ill ? "

*' Much better, thank you ; it was a
slight attack."

Tbe large balf-ligbted room was full of
shadows. Maynard looked the ghost of
himself . Were they not both ghosts ? 
beings from whom life and happiness bad
departed ? He was evidently too shaken
to talk, and sbe felt be bad been with
Dorcas.

Presently be rose.

May I see you alone in the morning ? "

Certainly, Hubert. Good-night."

When they met after breakfast in the
drawing-room, Edith took a seat in one of
the deep, pleasant windows wbicb overlooked

the lawns across which the trees cast
shadows, and where the air was still fresh
from the heavy dew, and the whole scene
peaceful and beautiful with the summer
richness of foliage. Maynard, still deadly
pale from a sleepless night and his accusing
conscience, moved to the opposite
side of the wide window, and confronted,
standing, the calm, grave lady whom he
had so grievously wronged. The moment
was so intensely bitter, that for a few
minutes he remained silent, unable to
begin the story of his treachery. One
grain of comfort he certainly did find,
in witnessing the calm, proud, and almost
indifferent bearing of his companion.

Edith," he said at length, " you know
the whole story."

Yes, Hubert."

If you had loved me, there could have
been no such story. I could not have

been a traitor to your love ; but you did
not. I came here five weeks ago determined
to win your affection. Without
being egotistical, I thought I might win
you to me with a lover's  a husband's
tenderness. If 1 have any excuse for my
conduct to you, it would be your coldness.
I was so conscious of wishing for your
love ; I so hoped for a little softness ;
some little sign that 1 might become dear
to you, but you chilled me. Only once
did you unbend a little, that first evening,
and then I was very happy for a short
time ; but when I naturally wished to kiss
you, you again drew back, and there was
something in your manner that hurt me
very much; it was as if I were taking
an unwarrantable liberty instead of my
right. Had you felt it possible, Edith, to
show me a little tenderness then I could
never have been faithless to you. But

you know you said before, with vehement
passion, that our bondage was hateful, and
that there was no love between us. There
was not, I know, on your side ; but believe
me I was very much drawn to you that
night : your subsequent coldness only too
surely convinced me that you regarded the
fulfilment of the contract with feelings of
the greatest pain. The idea of taking an
unwilling bride is very terrible to a man."

These words of his, evidently so heartfelt,
so true, fell on her heart with the
very irony of despair. In her proud self-assurance
it seemed as if she had deliberately
driven him from her, and sacrificed
her own happiness.

** Then, Edith," he continued in a low
tone, " you know what happened ; you
sent me to the farm to arrest what you
thought your brother's infatuation. Tou
forgot that I, too, was a man  easily led

into temptation. I saw her, and her eyes
seemed to look straight into my heart. I
was sure the attraction was mutual. I
saw she felt the power of my presence,
and that increased the fascination. . . .
Before I left her I knew I loved her.
Edith, I ought never to have seen her
again ; but I tried to silence my conscience
by vowing every visit should be the last,
until the time came when I knew I was
beloved in return ; and then, though she
shunned me, I could not leave her. For
her sake, you must believe her innocent of
all wrong towards you. The wrong is
mine. Last Saturday I went down to bid
her good-bye. I ventured to speak to her ;
she instantly rebuked me, but I stayed on.
I could not leave her without speaking the
truth. She refused me utterly, and sent
me from her ; but accident betrayed how
dear I was. Two short verses in Italian,

written in farewell, fluttered to my feet.
. . Then you know what happened. I
have told you all : you had the right to
know. Last night I saw her again ; I
pressed her to consent to a private marriage,
but she has refused me altogether.
I have sinned against you, Edith, and I
am terribly punished."

She was sitting with one hand shading
her eyes from him, touched quite too
much by his confidence and evident contrition.
She was obliged to wait a little
while before she could speak to him, her
voice was so full of tears.

Hubert," she said presently, and
raising her eyes to his, 'you are forgiven
most completely. As you say, it would
have been traitorous if you had won my
love and then left me ; but as you were
only trying to fulfil a hard and most unnatural
contract, I cannot blame you for

falling under the sway of such a powerful
temptation. But, Hubert, I do blame you
for staying on here ; you must know that
your doing so has been very painful to me,
and you have also compromised Dorcas.
Your  your passion for her has led you to
strangely forget the consideration which
as a gentleman you owe me. Why were
you not manly enough to make this explanation
earlier ? Why did you allow
even my guests to witness the evidence of
your affection for Dorcas ? Your conduct
has put both her and myself in a very disagreeable
position ; for, as things appear
to outsiders, people imagine I am still
engaged to you ; and I suppose that, for
your sake, they must continue to think so.
. . Though such a conclusion makes my
position a very invidious one, to say the
least," she said,  colouring with haughty
displeasure.

Would to God I were dead ! " said the
unhappy man ; ''I know how you must
hate such a tie being thought possible now ;
but I cannot help it. If the rupture of our
engagement were known, probably your
father and my uncle would force us into a
marriage."

'' Never, Hubert."

*' Oh, that we should be bound by such
an accursed contract ! What hurts me
more than anything is that I have deprived
you of your rightful fortune."

As all possibility is gone of either of
us ever claiming your relative's bequest, I
think we need not discuss the question,
need we ? " she asked haughtily.

Edith, Edith ! do not be too hard; I
would do anything for your welfare ; I feel
bound to you as a brother for ever. Will
you not let me be your brother and make
your cares my own ? "

VOL. II. B

** You forget that I have Harry' she
said coldly,  and that reminds me of a debt
he owes you. I believe he borrowed money
from you. Will you tell me the exact
amount ? "

It was a small sum, and any way it is
his debt, not yours."

Pardon me, Harry has no money of his
own. I speak as my father's representative.
Harry mentioned dol, but I feel sure
that was under the real amount. I ask
you to tell me, to the best of your belief,
what the amount was."

*' I really do not remember."

Hubert, you must remember. Even if
I were your betrothed wife, any such obligation
would be most disagreeable ; but
now it would be galling," she said passionately.


I do not know the exact sum ; it was
something under sol Is it possible you

can wound me so ; am I so mercenary ?
May I not, if I choose, make a gift to your
brother ? "

No, no ; it is impossible," she replied,
with an anger and agitation which surprised
him.

'' I am really sorry you should be so
hurt by a very ordinary transaction," he
replied sadly.

Of course you will inform your uncle
that our engagement is at an end," she continued
haughtily.

'' How can I, Edith ? "

*' It is your duty to tell him at once."

Yes, it is my duty ; but how can I risk
all?"

Is it not rather too late to say that ? "
she said scornfully. '' Pray understand
that I can be no party to deceiving Sir
William, even if necessity obliges me to
deceive my father for his own sake."
E 2

I cannot promise to tell my uncle yet."

*' Then you leave me no alternative but
to tell him myself."

*' Your doing so will probably be my
complete ruin."

I do not think so ; but of course you
must expect to suffer a little."

Suffer ! Have I not suffered ? If you
wish to be revenged, you certainly have
the power," he said bitterly.

'' Pardon me, there is no question of
revenge. It is simply impossible for me
to allow your uncle to think me still
engaged to you ; either you must tell him
the truth, or J must."

"Is there any necessity that he should
be told immediately ? "

J think so. Captain Maynard," she said
again with that proud blush of displeasure.

Then pray let no consideration for me
influence you. Tell him at once ; tell him

the bond that was always hateful to you is
broken, and that you never loved me even
in friendship," he said with passionate
anger.

An angry retort rose to her lips ; with
difficulty she repressed it, and then smiled
when she felt her eyes full of burning,
passionate tears. It was better he should
think so ; better a thousand times, that he
should reproach her, than guess the truth ;
but just then she could not speak with
calmness ; so she remained silent, looking
out into the garden, and fearing he would
see those stupid, treacherous tears which
half-blinded her.

Good Heavens, what am I saying to
you ! " he exclaimed sorrowfully. " Try
to forgive me, Edith, if you can ; that is
all I will or dare say to you, now. I know
my uncle ought to be told, and  and yet I
shrink from telling him. Would not any

man, who lias broken faili as I have,
shrink ? I have no right to ask it, but,
Edith, would you wait a little while, even
if you despise my want of manliness in
not acknowledging my error at once ? "

I will wait for a fortnight ; after that
time, unless I hear from you, I must write
to Sir William."

Your forbearance and generosity only
increase my debt to you," he said in a low
tone. " I will ask you to make my adieux
to your father and Harry  and can my
things be sent on to Exton ? I shall go up
by the mail train to-night."

I will have everything sent to Exton intime,"
she replied, feeling that all the
bitterness of a life-long parting was at hand.

Captain Maynard  Hubert," she said,
and now she was careless whether he saw
her tears or not  * we must not part in
anger; I freely and fully forgive you  may

may your future life be happy and
honourable! Good-bye'  and she held
out her hand to him, which he clasped ;
and murmuring some low words, he left
her.

She stood there some time, with an immensity
of pain and anguish in her eyes,
then, with slow stateliness, went through
the hall upstairs to her room.

"Oh, my God! my God! but how I
have loved him," she exclaimed when she
was alone, quite alone.

CHAPTER III.

Cymbeline : Past grace 1 obedience 1
Imogen : Past hope, and in despair ; that way, past
grace."

CymheU7ie, Act i. Sc 1.

Good name in man or woman
Is the immediate jewel of their souls."

Othello, Act iii. Sc. 2.

She's a lady
So tender of rebukes, that words are strokes,
And strokes death to her."

Cymbeline, Act iii. Sc. 5.

The morning after her last parting from
Captain Maynard, Dorcas felt really ill,
with the throbbing head, and the intense
lassitude which follows mental suffering.
Her mother, apprehensive that her

languor and heaviness were signs of
the beginning of some feverish attack,
sent her to her room to lie down. Mrs.
Finch knew nothing of her having fainted
the previous evening ; that was a secret
between Reuben and the faithful Hephzi-
bah. So, when Dorcas was lying with
closed eyes in her pretty room, which was
pleasantly shaded by the blind being down,
she heard her father come in, and ask, intones
very different from his usual calm
and kind ones, 

Where's Dorcas ? "

Then she knew the crisis had come.
Just now she felt so unable to bear any
excitement ; and the pain of the coming
interview would be so great, the anguish
intolerable,  to know that she had fallen in
her father's esteem. She heard him coming
upstairs with hasty steps, betokening passionate
anger, and he entered the room.

She had risen from the sofa, and now
stood confronting him,  very pale, very
lovely ; with no fear, but with an appeal
to his forgiveness and compassion. Perhaps
never before had the father realized
all his child's beauty.

Dorcas," he said hoarsely, " What's
this Parson Anstey has been telling me
about you and Captain Maynard ? "

No reply came ; she was still looking
into his face, as if to deprecate his anger.

'' You don't dare tell me it's true ! I told
him it was a confounded lie ! He  he said
he saw you with Captain Maynard down
by the river at ten o'clock on Tuesday
night. I'll never believe as my daughter
would disgrace herself by meeting a man
who's as good as married, alone in the
night-time."

Then her eyes fell, and she drew a long
breath, which was almost a sob.

Father, I did meet him."

You  did  meet him ! " said he, anger,
doubt, grief, and suspicion gathering
with dreadful force within him. '' Then
I wish as you'd died when you was a
little one, before you could be brought to
shame."

No, no, father, I have done very
wrong, but I have not disgraced myself."

'* Not disgraced yourself ! " he said
loudly and passionately, " when you say
as you did meet him,  another woman's
sweetheart,  a man as is a gentleman by
rank, though he's a cursed villain to have
enticed you. Ah, if I had ha' known I'd
ha' broke every bone in his body before
he should ha' led you wrong."

Oh, father ! dear father ! don't think
that of me, I  I am a good girl. I went
to the river to bid him good-bye. I know
I know I ought not to have gone. I

know I outfit never to have liked him so :
but  but, oh, I could not help it ! "

'' Ay, ay, I see how 'tis. I educated
you out of your condition, as the parson
says. I thought to make a lady of join
because you was so pretty and gentle-like,
and this "  with almost a sob  " is the
ending of it ; my pretty maid has disgraced
herself. Parson's right, 'tis all this learning,
and all these light books as corrupts
young women, and makes them light of
conduct. Do you know your name and
his are in everybody's mouth ? Do you
know they say you have lost your
character r "

I have not lost my character in the
way they mean. Captain Maynard loves
me too much to injure me," she said,
roused and angry.

What ! you dare to speak of his love
as if you were proud of it ? Why, Dorcas,

don't you understand it's to your shame
to be loved by him at all ? "

Yes, I know it only too well, father,"
she replied, in a low, tired voice.

Then, if you knew 'twas wrong, why
did you not shun the man, as a modest
maid would ha' done ? Things are all
going bad with me, but this is the worst
of all,  the worst of all ! I shall never
hold up my head again, Dorcas, and feel
proud of ye as I used. And never such
a thing heard of in my family, nor your
poor mother's ; for our maids ha' always
been modest, and our wives honest women.
I thought you was a discreet, modest
maid, too, and would never get yourself
talked about in this shameful way. But,"
with rising passion, " I'll take good care
in the future ye shan't have a chance of
being talked about, or a chance of being
enticed; for you shall go to my cousin's in

Wales, and that's far enough oE, I reckon,
to stop folks' tongues."

Don't, don't send me there, father."

And why should I not ? It would ha'
been a deal better, I reckon, if we'd gone
there at first, years ago, and then I'd ha'
never felt the hurt I feel this day. To
have bred up a child as has deceived
me ! "

'' I  I never meant to deceive you.
Oh, father, father, have some pity on
me!"

Pity ! " with scornful passion. " As
ye have sowed ye must reap. I don't
say as I think ye are a fallen, shameless
one : if I thought that, I'd kill the man
that shamed you : no, no, ye are not that,
thank God ! but ye can never be again
what you once was, Dorcas, the sweetest,
prettiest maid that ever a father loved;
and God only knows how I ha' delighted

in you, and loved you. Thinking, in my
high, proud, sinful heart, as ye was indeed
a gentle lady, and different from the other
farmers' daughters round about. But now
I am rarely punished. Every lout can
shame me now when he tells how you've
let your pretty head  Why ha' ye done it ?
Why ha' ye done it ? " he exclaimed with
sudden hysterical passion, which grew and
grew, until he was hardly conscious of
what he was saying. His voice was harsh,
his gestures violent, his face pale and
suffering. Would poor Dorcas, standing
with her hand upon her heart, ever forget
that picture of a father's grief ! Into this
scene came the wife and mother terrified.

William, what is this ? What has
Dorcas done that you are so cruel to her ? "

Done ! "with thunder. " She has
disgraced herself and her family."

No, no, I'll never believe our Dorcas

has done that. Your father forgets himself,
my dear, when he speaks like that."

*' Forget myself ! I wish I could forget
I was father to such a child ! "

Mother, mother, I have done very
wrong, but you know I am innocent  don't
you?" with a wild appeal in her lovely
eyes,  a picture of tragedy and beauty
which father and mother ever remembered
in after-years.

My darling, 1 am your mother, whatever
you may have done."

And then Dorcas was in her arms, and
the girl's sobs were wild and terrible. The
unhappy father stood irresolute, and then
passed slowly away from that sight of a
wife roused to defiance, while she held her
suffering child in her arms. She had asked
no question to enlighten the mystery. She
knew nothing of any scandal, and she was
equally ignorant of any love between

Dorcas and Maynard. When her husband
had come in, disturbed and angry, she had
been surprised; but when she heard his
raised voice and angry vehemence she was
frightened ; and after waiting some time
by the stairs she went into the room.
That her husband should ever raise his
voice to Dorcas !  her to whom he had ever
been so gentle,  for whom nothing was too
good,  whose every wish was considered,
until the mother had sometimes felt inclined
to be jealous and hurt by the love
given to her own beautiful child. Now she
was told by the husband she loved and revered
that this idolized child had disgraced
herself. So the poor mother, with fear in
her heart as to what might be the cause
of her child's misery, held her, and soothed
her, as if she were again " a little one,"
ad forbore to ask her the cause of those
bitter sobs. When Dorcas could speak

VOL. II. F

the story was all gasped forth. Not one
reproach did the mother utter, and perhaps
the two were nearer than they ever
had been since Dorcas had arrived at
womanhood. The days that followed were
wretched. Dorcas was so shaken and
spiritless that she implored her mother tolet
her keep altogether in her own room ;
but her father insisted on her coming
down to meals, which proved hours of
torture ; for sometimes a stern, cruel word,
would make her blush or tremble when
her father " cast up " her sins to her.
Alas 1 alas ! a new feeling had sprung to
life as regarded him. She now feared him ;
felt he was hard, unjust, and unforgiving.
Sometimes she was terribly
tempted to write those few words which
would bring her lover again to her side.

Anything, anything to escape from her
once happy home, which was now virtually

her prison, for lie was forbidden to leave
the gardens.

Dorcas, Dorcas, my child, what can I
do for yon ? yon frighten me," said the
unhappy mother, coming upon her one
night, when she was walking up and down
in her bedroom, with despair on her face.

Oh, if I could but die ! How you
must despise me, mother, and condemn
me for bringing all this trouble upon

you."

Despise and condemn my own child,
my dear ! Pray don't talk so ; go to bed,
my dear."

"Why is father so hard ? I can't stay
here, I shall go mad ; I must go away ! "

But, my dear, where can you go ? "

Anywhere, anywhere from this
place ! "

Oh, my dear, how burning your hands
are, go to bed and try to sleep."
 2

Sleep ! " Then there was a wild burst
of tears 5 which ended by calming her with
weariness. Poor Dorcas ! And there were
other wretched people in that house. An
old man lying with wide-open eyes,
staring into the night, and occasionally
moaning, when sleep vanished again and
again. A kind woman, wakeful too,
wiping away her tears very quietly, awed
by this change in her husband,  this new
bitterness, this new sternness to his
favourite child. And so a week passed.

It appeared as if some unhappy fate had
changed the whole life of that most pleasant
home ; yes, pleasant in spite of much care
through bad times and the debts of an improvident
son.

For Dorcas had been to the proud old
yeoman a never-failing source of happiness.
Her gentle, well-bred manners, her sweet
voice, her happy laughter, and all the

charm of her beautiful young womanhood,
had been to him something almost too
dear, too precious, to speak of. And now
how this beloved child had fallen ! His
anger was so great because his love was so
great.

The cruel wound which so hurt his pride
was that any should have dared to speak
lightly of his darling. The once kind
master, the once kind husband and father
was now harsh and overbearing.

A stern, pale old man, full of bitter
words to all around him, and quickly
hurried by the least opposition into terrible
bursts of passion.

The weather had changed from glorious
summer heat to cloudy skies and cold, persistent
rain, and thunder-storms, making
a cheerless forecast for the harvest,
and disheartening all the unfortunate
farmers and landowners. The dreary

prospect out of doors added to the gloom
of the unhappy household at the farm.

But after that week Hephzibah, who
once or twice had " spoken up " to her old
master,  for she was very quick-tempered,
determined to see Miss Edith; perhaps
she might be able to cast oil on the
troubled waters. Hephzibah was quite
fierce on the score of poor Dorcas's
wrongs ; not a word would she say in her
disfavour, and, indeed, had given one of
the cottagers' wives such a trouncing when
she had dared to mention the scandal,
that the woman had retired frightened
enough by the old servant's anger.

But if the culprit was very tenderly
dealt with, the innocent Molly had an
exceptionally hard time ; and so often went
about with tears on her good-humoured,
round face, that her kind mistress at last
reprimanded Hephzibah.

That evening, when everything was
arranged in the spotless order that
always reigned at the farm, Hephzibah
put on her bonnet and shawl and proceeded
to the Hall through those pleasant
meads and corn-fields, the latter giving
promise of a bountiful harvest if only
blessed by warmth and sunshine. After
a wet morning the evening was fine, and
a little brightness in the western sky gave
promise of more genial weather.

It was about half-past eight when
she reached the fragrant, beautiful gardens,
and saw Edith slowly walking
up and down the broad terraced walk.
Hephzibah approached her with some
timidity, but Edith advanced with kind
welcome.

Good evening, Hepzibah ; I am glad
to see you out after all the rain. Did you
want to see me or Hannah ? "

'' You, please miss, if T may make so
bold'

"Ah! you want to speak to me ; come to
this chair then, we can talk while you rest."

A pause, during which poor Hephzi
found it difficult to begin,  knowing only
too well how much " her lamb," as she
sometimes called Dorcas, had sinned
against this grand, kind lady.

Is there anything wrong at the farm?"
the latter asked gently.

Everything is wrong, mum." And then
Hephzibah fairly hid her face in her apron
and cried.

Let me get you a glass of wine ; you
are tired."

"ISTo, thank 'ee, mum; no, thank 'ee; pray
do 'ee excuse me ; but you see. Miss Edith,
there's been a dreadful upset between the
master and Miss Dorcas. Parson Anstey
told the master as he saw miss with  with

oil, dear ! oh, dear ! you do know who I
do mean, dear Miss Edith ?"

Yes, Hephzibah."

Well, the master was in a dreadful
way, and since he's been just awful with
his bitter words and his passions, and keeps
casting up her faults to her, poor dear,
until she's like to run away, or do somewhat
desperate ; o' course I know as what she
have done was very wrong, but the master
'uU drive her to worse, I am afeared,
with his cruel words. I don't see as
Parson Anstey had any cause to go and
make such mischief. And so. Miss
Edith, I have made bold to come and ask
you to come and see Miss Dorcas, and
tell her what she ought to do ; and
perhaps we'd speak a word to the master
too."

Here was a fine dramatic situation !
thought Edith, smiling a little bitterly;

but liking the old servant exceedingly for
her loyal love for Dorcas,  the love which
entirely blinded her to the strange and
awkward position in which she had placed
Edith. Another time she would have felt
gratified by this belief in her infallibility,
and in her power to set things right.
Just now, however, she felt a haughty disinclination
to meet old Mr. Finch, or, indeed,
any of the family. If she went she
knew she would not be able to resist any
appeal from Dorcas, and yet  she had
hardly forgiven Dorcas.

So you wish me to come down,
Hephzibah ? I really don't see that my
coming will do any good."

'' Oh, dear Miss Edith, do 'ee come !
Everybody knows how clever you are ; if
we'd only say a word to the master and
Miss Dorcas."

Well, then, Hephzibah, I will call

tomorrow morning. And now, won't you
go in and see the servants ? "

"Not to-night, thank 'ee, mum; I do hope
as you'll excuse the liberty I have took."

It's no liberty, Hephzibah. Be faithful
always to Miss Dorcas. Good-night."

And she began her solitary promenade
again. Wo, she had not forgiven Dorcas.
Since Maynard had left her, the hopeless
irritating struggle of the future with their
impoverished estate weighed upon her.
She might have done so much ; now she
could do nothing. For herself, perhaps,
she did not care so keenly ; but there washer
father, unlovely in his sarcastic speech,
his gloomy moods, his endless fault-finding;
but still the same father she remembered a
handsome, prosperous country gentleman,
kind, generous, and hospitable, until that
dire bank broke and swept the greater part
of their property away in the universal

ruin. It had been lier dream oi: years past
that she might be able to surround him with
something of his old luxury in the evening
of his days ; but that was now impossible.

And Harry, heedless and selfish, was
somehow very dear to the bereft woman.
His career, his life, should now be her
charge until he married, when, perhaps,
he might tell her to seek another home !
Edith, in her disappointment and bitterness,
expected little gratitude from any one.

The next morning, which opened with
some promise of a fine day, Edith walked
down to the farm. As she proceeded she
wondered much what she must say ; and
she was fall of conjecture as to the
amount of pain she and Dorcas must endure
in their meeting.

Hephzibah, who in truth had been rather
frightened when she had accomplished the
object of her journey to the Hall, received

Miss Fleming with extra respect, and
simply asked her to walk up to Dorcas's
room, when she announced her to the surprised
girl, who was reading, but who
started to her feet as she echoed the words,
Miss Fleming."

For an instant they stood so,  face to
face. Then Dorcas's beautiful eyes and
head drooped with an intolerable shame
and grief. Edith was much agitated too.
The situation of each was so painful ; and
then the piteous change in Dorcas ! The
look of positive ill-health, the fragility
of her whole appearance touched Edith
keenly, even to tears.

Suddenly Dorcas raised her eyes, and
there was a blending of defiance and shame
in their expression.

You have come to reproach me. I
deserve all you can say. I have forgotten
all your kindness, all your generosity.

You must hate me. I should hate the
woman who had injured me," she said
passionately, and striving to keep back the
wild outburst of tears which would, must
come soon  too soon.

I did not come to reproach you,
Dorcas. I heard you were in trouble,
that is why I am here."

'' Ah ! in what trouble ! " said the other
with a half-sob as she clasped her hands
tightly. ' Do you know my father will
not speak to me  will not forgive me !
Oh, he is so hard, so hard ! Do you know
they say the  the worst of me. How
could I help loving him? He  he grew
into my heart ; he was so courteous, so
sweet, so winning. I had no thought of
wrong towards you at first. I found out
the truth too late. After he had spoken,
and after I had refused him, my own
folly convinced him of my attachment. I

could not resist him  he  Oh, but
you know all ! " she said, covering her
burning face with her hands.

Edith, if you wished to be revenged,
you are so by my humiliation ! What can
I do ! I have ever kept myself so  so
aloof from folly  and now people say I
have disgraced myself. That is false, but
oh, that they should dare to think and say
it of me ! "

Then, unable to repress any longer the
hysterical passion which choked her, she
stood before Edith shaken by sobs, in the
very abandonment of grief.

'' Oh, Dorcas ! don't, don't give
way so ; you are forgiven," said Edith,
putting her arm round the other to support
her.

Forgiven ! How can you forgive
me ? " And then she partly withdrew
from the protecting arm.

Surely you do not refuse my forgiveness
? "

No ; Ob., that I were dead  dead, away
from every one ! "

Then she turned away, and with faltering
steps reached the sofa, where she let
her sorrow have its full sway.

Edith felt she was quite powerless. She
was deeply shocked and grieved ; the last
vestige of anger died away in her heart ;
instead came the grand maternal instinct
of protection and love. At that instant
she realized all her own strength in the
midst of her weakness. She felt with an
immense satisfaction, that henceforth she
would be able to bear,  able at least to
endure,  the blow which had fallen upon
her ; that she could rise superior to her disappointment,
and truthfully and lovingly
forgive her rival. There should be no
half measures,  no stint in her loyalty. It

touched her pride that her forgiveness
should be thorough,  that her pity should
be the compassion of one who did nothing
grudgingly. The appeal, the humiliation
of the distressed girl revealed in a new
light what she might be to this exquisite
sister, who had so slightly wandered from
the right path. To any one watching that
scene, nothing of her purpose was visible
in the grave, almost stern face of the tall
lady who was looking silently on the
picture of her rival's remorseful repentance.
So she waited until the storm of
grief was over.

'' Dorcas, won't you believe in my forgiveness,
in my affection ? " she said
gently, while she touched the lovely head
caressingly. Such affectionate solicitude
was not to be resisted.

Dorcas, trembling much, rose to her feet,
and silently laid her hands in Edith's, and

VOL. 11. O

when they again stood so face to face, it
would be difficult to say which, was the
more beautiful. Edith's smile, her eyes
misty from unshed tears, and commanding
presence ;  the other's fragile beauty,
and trembling graceful form, half waiting
for, and half shrinking from the full forgiveness
of her injured friend. But not
long had she to wait.

Dorcas," said Edith gently, and then
Dorcas was in her arms and close to her
heart. . . .

Long, long they talked. Encouraged,
soothed, and quieted, Dorcas poured
forth her story. In spite of all her
new resolutions, Edith in listening felt
once or twice as deeply all the anguish
of suffering, as if she were indeed pressing
a cross of thorns to her bosom. . . .

Two hours had gone by, when they heard
Mr. Finch's voice in the garden below.

Stay here, Dorcas, I will go down now
and speak to your father."

A mute embrace followed, and then
Edith quickly descended to the hall, where
Mr. Finch was standing by the Bureau,
and apparently vainly seeking some lost
paper.

Where the mischief is it gone ? " he
exclaimed just as she was by him. *' Miss
Edith, I didn't know you were here.
Please come into the parlour, I was
hunting for a drench; I've got a cow
bad."

** I am sorry to hear that. Can I speak
to you, Mr. Finch, for a few minutes ? I
won't keep you long."

My time is yours, ma'am," he returned
gravely, with old-fashioned courtesy, and
leading the way for his visitor to the
pleasant parlour.

When there, Edith felt the difficulty of
G 2

opening the subject, especially as she saw
signs of great mental suffering on the
grand old face before her.

'' I came down to see Dorcas; I am very
sorry to find her so poorly*'

A faint flush, apparently of pain, came
to the old man's cheek.

Dorcas ought to be very grateful to
you, Miss Edith, for she certainly does not
deserve your kindness."

*' I am afraid, Mr. Finch, if we all went
by our deserts, we should merit little of
the kindness we receive."

'* You have no cause to say that, ma'am,
though others may have a-plenty. I reckon
there's but few such brave, fine-hearted
ladies as you, more's the pity."

*' Why, Mr. Finch, 1 did not know you
dealt in compliments. Now I am going
to speak of a subject which is painful, but
which I must touch upon. Your daughter

is almost heart-broken because you are so
stern to ber."

Stern to her, ma'am ! Do you know
what she bas done ? But, great God ! that
I should ask you that ! "

*' Mr. Fincb, you know bow contrite
Dorcas is. You know sbe bas confessed
sbe was led away by the strongest passion
of our nature. Sbe yearns for your forgiveness
and trust. If you, ber father,
utterly condemn ber, to whom can return
for protection ? "

Sbe bas deceived me, and disgraced
herself."

No, no, that is too bard,  too unjust a
term. If you think a moment, you will
understand that I bad some cause for
anger and reproach against ber, but sbe
bas my complete forgiveness. If I can
forgive, cannot you ? "

No, no, Miss Edith ; 'tis just that, because

she has injured you, and come betwixt
you and him, as is to be your
husband, that makes me so hard."

Then for my sake forgive and receive
your child back into your confidence.
Don't make her despair any longer. She
is not very strong, and all this disturbance
and suffering may make her very
delicate."

Delicate ! Do you think she is
that?"

*' I hope not permanently, but she is
sadly altered the last few weeks."

Ay, I told her, I'd ha' rather she'd
died young, than lived on to be the talk of
the place. It's because  because she seems
to be more than all the world to me, that
I cannot bear her disgrace. Miss Edith,
it just kills me to think, as my own work-people
may jest about her, and lay evil to
her charge of which she is innocent. Oh,

my little maid, my little maid, as can never
be the same again ! '* said the old. man, with
a break in his voice.

Dorcas will live to be a distinguished
woman yet, Mr. Finch. She will outlive
this cruel scandal, and you weill be prouder
and prouder of her than ever."

'' Ay, but your words have a cheering,
comforting sort of sound, Miss Edith. I
wish though as I could believe that happy
time might come. But all things are bad
W' with me now. I reckon unless this harvest
turns out well, that I'll have to leave next
Easter. I have done my best, but I can't
hold on against bad seasons and other
things. And I and mine ha' been on this
land, and in this house, more than three
hundred years, tenants of the Flemings.
Ay, the two families ha' run together
generation on generation, and now, I am
feared, both squire and yeoman are pretty

nigh run out ; for things at the old Hall
are but bad I am doubting'

*' Yes, Mr. Finch, we are poor enough*'

Well, if I can't pay my rent the Squire
must just sell me up, though I know well
he'd be loath to do that, unless necessity
obliged him."

*' Don't speak of that, we would rather
give up the Hall than lose such an old and
valued friend."

Ay, it's like you to say that. Miss Edith,
but I'll ha' to go, I am feared. I have not
capital enough to work the farm. I can't
keep stock enough, and the land's getting
just starved. I ha' worked hard all my
life  up early and late  but things ha' been
against me, one way and t'other, the last
six years. 'Twill be a blow to have to
leave the old place. I allays thought as I
should die here, as my father did afore me ;
but the Lord knows where I shall die, if

the times ain't better. Aj, for more than
three hundred years us Finches ha' been
here, from father to son  generation after
generation. We have brought our brides
here ; we ha' drawn our first breath of
life here, and my forbears ha' drawn their
last. Ay, Miss Edith, 'tis surely a solemn
thing to think of all the scenes this dumb
old house ha' witnessed ; bridal and
funerals, births, and deaths ! I'd thought
to ha' seen one more wedding here. I
hoped my pretty wench would ha' taken to
Eeuben  a good, honest man, who'd ha'
made her the treasure of his heart  but
God's will be done."

Mr. Finch, we are all liable to make
plans for others, thinking blindly they are
best ; after events often prove our folly.
Now, I feel I have not spoken in vain about
your daughter ; I know how dear, how very
precious, she is to you, and, knowing that,

I entreat sou. wholly to forgive her ; for,
believe me, she was never so much in need
of jour love and protection as she is now.
Mr. Finch, I cannot leave you until I have
your promise."

'' Promise ! Miss Edith, I'd be 'shamed
if I could not promise forgiveness. I
always ha' loved and respected you, as a
noble, God-fearing young lady; but  but
this day ye're made me think as yeare
more one of God's dear saints than
aught else. Dorcas shall hear no more
from me ; and as I hope to be forgiven myself,
I'll try to forget as she's fallen away
from the right path ; anyhow, God bless
you. Miss Edith. I  I don't understand
it, but I am afeared, I am afeared my child
ha' been just the ruin of your life."

I will Ive to prove it otherwise. Goodbye,
Mr. Finch," holding out her hand.
'' You have said so many kind and pretty

things, that I am afraid I shall think too
much of myself ! "

Not you, Miss Edith."

Tell Dorcas I shall come down again
in a day or two."

Then she took her way home, and the
old man, who had opened the gate for her,
stood there some time in deep thought.

'' Poor dear lady, she loves that scoundrel
still ; now I wonder why God Almighty
allowed her, being so good, to be troubled
so, instead of some wicked, flaunting hussy.
These queer ups and downs are quite beyond
a man's understanding, surely."

Then he went up to his daughter's room.
Dorcas knew she was forgiven, by the
gentle way in which he opened the door.
Again she stood; again she was trembling,
when he approached with a smile,
though his eyes were full and his lips
quivering.

Come here, mj poor little one," he said
softly ; and then, with a cry, she was on his
heart, and there, blessed by his great love,
we will leave her.

CHAPTER IV.

All of her that is out of door, most rich !
If she be furnished with a mind so rare,
She is alone the Arabian bird."

Cymbeline, Act i. Sc. 6.

Eor she's fair and royal,
And that she hath all courtly parts more exquisite,
Than lady, ladies, woman  "

Oymbeline, Act iii. Sc. 5.

The night following that of Maynard's departure
from Carstone, a certain great lady
gave a magnificent ball. This lady's balls
were celebrated, and happy were those fortunate
people who possessed the right of
entrance to her most artistic and charming
house, which was made as ravishing

and delectable to the eye on these occasions
as perfect taste could suggest.

Even grief and torturing thoughts have
their climax of anguish, and Maynard on
reaching his rooms after midnight, was too
thoroughly worn out, mentally and physically,
not to sleep soundly. So he slept
far on into the next day, and then, with
awakening, came the remembrance of
things past I only yesterday !

However, mortal man requires breakfast;
so he rose, and after his bath felt more
inclined to bear life's troubles. Somehow,
his own familiar rooms had grown strange
to him. Abounding though they were in
evidences of a most cultivated and refined
taste, he felt that they had nothing to do
with, and no association with, this newer
sweeter life of his, beset as it was with
perils innumerable.

Wearily he looked around on the past

treasures of his aesthetic love ; how beautiful
the were,  these inanimate creations of
art and poetry,  but dead and cold since a
living, breathing woman had touched his
heart to rapture and new life. IN'ow he felt
the pulsations within him which spring to
life when an exquisite ideal is realized.
Now he could feel the painter's and the
poet's power, and not merely prate of, and
be satisfied with, the formal expression of
beauty. By-and-by, he looked carelessly
and languidly over his list of engagements,
past, present, and future. When he

saw Lady 's ball was that night, some

little alacrity and interest stirred him ; he
decided he would go. Then, as the hot
midday sun poured down, he realized how
confined and stuffy these London rooms
were, when compared with the sweet, fresh
country air he had so luxuriated in at
Carstone.

As, later on, lie walked down to this club
on the shady side of the street, in the
sultry air, he almost asked himself if he
were the same man who had left these once
well-beloved scenes five weeks before !
Surely it must be five months !

About midnight, he stepped into his hansom,
and proceeded, at first at a quick rate,

towards House. However, when he

with others became entangled in the long
line of carriages moving slowly thither-wards
the impatient man descended, and, as
the pavements were dry, made his way on
foot to the entrance, through the dense
crowd. Soon he, with others, was ascending
the grand staircase, and presently received,
from his gracious and distinguished hostess,
a smile and a few words of welcome, before
he too passed on into saloons bright
and beautiful as fairyland. Looking on
this dazzling scene of well-bred women,

whose dress and jewellery were worth
fabulous amounts, he thought of one lovely
girl, in a simple white gown, a flower in
her bosom, and love and anguish in her
eyes !

Father bewildered by the brilliant scene,
he looked around on every side for someone
he wished to see. From room to
room he went, threading his way through
the crowd, exchanging, as he went, many a
greeting with many a friend. At length
he perceived the object of his quest,  a
young lady fitted to shine in this exclusive
society. She was a brunette, with the
brightest and softest of dark eyes, bewitching
with their clear depths, their
lurking satire ; the whitest of white teeth,
showing between the reddest of lips, when
she smiled, which was frequently. With
the freedom of an old friend, our captain
gently made his way until he reached

VOL II. H

her. He bowed and smiled as lie said,
with a charming audacity, 

This is our valse, I think, Miss
Stanley."

Of course it is ; I had forgotten. Pray
excuse me, Lord Other, I thought Captain
Maynard would not be here."

When they had left the group around
her, she said, 

"Did a little romance ever fail you at a
pinch ? "

Romance ! I repudiate the charge !
You promised me months ago."

'' Yes, probably before the ball was ever
dreamt of ! "

Soon they were in the brilliant ball-room
waltzing  as they had often waltzed before
to the dreamy, voluptuous, heart stirring
music.

What an abrupt, marvellous change
in little more than twenty-four hours ! "

thought Maynard, with his thoughts turned
painfully back to Dorcas, even at the
very moment when he was lightly guiding
and supporting one of the most beautiful
and distinguished women in London.

That's enough," she said presently, " I
want to talk to you ; so find a balcony or
conservatory  or, better still, the garden ;
it will at least be cool there."

How solemn you are, Yenetia. Has
anything happened ? "

I imagine much has happened to you,
if I may judge by your melancholy face.
Have you quarrelled with Edith ? "

No ; why should I quarrel ? " he answered
evasively, and avoiding her searching
glance.

*' Then have the strawberries and cream
given you indigestion ?"

Strawberries and cream ? "

Yes ; country delights, you know,
H 2

which you have been enjoying, while we
poor wretches in town have been praying
that our too sold flesh might not melt
altogether."

It has been tremendously hot at Car-stone."


How I should like to know the history
of the last five weeks ! ' ' Looking up into
his face with a smile, she saw he flushed a
little. " Have you met some sweet Coloris,
some bewitching Phyllis ? or what is the
cause of your melancholy visage ? I believe
you have lost your heart to some one down
there ! Imagine a man going into the
country for five weeks, in the height of the
season ! It looks frightfully suspicious ! "

They were now in the garden, amidst
the rarest and most fragrant of flowers,
now silvered by the moonlight; while couples
wandered hither and thither, mingling
soft laughter and subdued voices with the

strains of the band of the Grenadier
Guards, which, sufficiently removed, was
playing the spirited overture to "La Gaza
Laura."

Suppose I had lost my heart, Yenetia ? ' '
he said in a low tone.

I hope it is to Edith, then," she said
quickly.

But to that he made no reply, and she
saw he was very white in the moonlight.

I see you are in trouble. I am very
sorry," she said gently.

Yes, I am in trouble," he replied, blind
to something that passed over the other's
face.

Have you heard any particular news,
to-day? " she asked, with a little laugh.

News ? No. Is there any of great
moment ? "

'' Not to the world at large, perhaps,
but of much to me."

'* To you, Yenetia ? What is it ? I hope
it is good news."

Magnificent ! I have hooked my big
fish, and have him high and dry on the
bank ! Is not that grand news ? "

'' Are  are you engaged to Wandsworth?"


Yes."

Are you really ? "  absently, while he
looked into her face a minute.

Have you nothing to say ? no congratulations
on my conquest? no  no good
wish, Hubert ? " she said banteringly, but
with an undercurrent of sadness.

'every good wish, dear Yenetia. But
it is such a serious step, and  you are so
very impulsive."

Is that all you have to say, when every
girl in London is half-dying with envy and
malice at my success ? "

I hope you will be very happy."

So do I, most devoutly. I am glad
the question of mj marriage is settled at
last. No one can say I have not done mj
duty. I intend to enter into Lord Wandsworth's
pursuits con amove, Hubert. I will
devote myself to the '' Eating Calendar " 
learn all the pedigrees of the first favourites
and I have serious thoughts of trying
cigarettes, and brandy and soda."

Ah, now you are indeed jesting ! You
to descend to the role of a fast woman !
impossible, dear Yenetia. You know
Wandsworth loves you because you are so
different from the women he has associated
with. Let him always worship you."

You are very chary of your congratulations,
Hubert; and most dreadfully
solemn."

I think Wandsworth is to be tremendously
congratulated."

'' Ah ! men will never praise, never allow

any good in any but themselves' she said
half-angrily.

That is a libel on me. I am rather
disposed to hero-worship ; only one finds so
few heroes."

*' Lord Wandsworth does not aspire to
be a hero," she said a little scornfully.

'No ; I question whether very heroic
people are pleasant to live with. They
must always be so horribly conscious of
being better than their neighbours."

Hubert,"  with a sudden anxiety in
her voice,  " you don't think I have done
wrong, do you ? "

*' I confess I am surprised ; he is not the
sort of man I should have thought you
would have married."

The sort of man ! Can we pick and
choose?"

You, Yenetia, have certainly had the
means of choosing."

But what a choice ! ISTo ; it is because
Lord Wandsworth is exactly the reverse of
of any ideal I may ever have been foolish
enough to create, that I think we may be
fairly happy together ! "

'' What a strange motive for a marriage
! T wonder if I shall ever understand
women ! "

'you must remember always, Hubert,
that he is very much in love,"  with a
smile and a slight blush.

Of course he is ; and in choosing you
has shown exquisite taste."

Merci, monsieur ! " with a half satirical
smile and bow.

Well, Venetia, you have my best wishes
for your happiness. I think you are strong
enough to know it lies very much in your own
hands now  you have decided. Your ambition
for high position is gratified, and you
have secured a certain triumph, I suppose."

Don't, don't be sarcastic ! "

Sarcastic ? Nothing is further from
my thoughts. Do you remember that
evening last Christmas ? that evening 
when  ? "

When you forgot you were an engaged
man and wounded me; but hardly as much
as you wound me now in recalling that
scene," she said haughtily.

Had your answer been different, what
an amount of anguish I and another might
have been spared ! "

My answer could not have been
different without a shameful breach of
trust, as you know perfectly well. I don't
understand why you should allude now to
the only occurrence I regret in our long
friendship  the only time when you fell in
my esteem."

Pardon me ! I would do anything rather
than wound or offend you. But I am so

unhappy myself; everything is going so
against me, that I can see only despair in
the future. And now you who are so
very dear to me, tell me you are going
to marry a man, having no love for
him!"

'rit is not so. I would not wrong Lord
Wandsworth by marrying him if I were as
indifferent as you imagine," she said
gravely. " And now, having enjoyed our
valse, shall we return to the ball-room ?
Lord Wandsworth might feel annoyed if
he had to wait too long for me."

I am afraid I have offended you a
little."

'' Not too much to be forgiven,"  with a
bright smile. " I shall be at home at three
o'clock this afternoon ; call then, and tell
me some of your troubles."

I shall be de trap''

'' Not then ; you might be later."

Tliej were again in the splendid
rooms amidst she crowd, and Yenetia
Stanley, with a pretty little excuse to her
lover, who certainly did look rather black,
was presently valuing with him as charmingly
as if she had never lost her heart to
Maynard years before. Half in irony she
had told him that evening she had hooked
her big fish. Had she been quite truthful,
she might have said the big fish had been
landed and at her disposal more than a
year before. Lord Wandsworth had then
been firmly but courteously refused.
However, he was a man who seldom gave
up a point ; he bided his time, and, as the
result shows, was victorious.

Since they were children, there had
always been the closest, friendliest intimacy
between Venetia and Maynard. They had
grown up together, their parents being
near neighbours and friends.

At three o'clock Captain Maynard
readied Park Lane, and was shown into a
delightfully cool room. The light subdued,
the air sweet from flowers in jardinieres
and elsewhere ; and everything very harmonious
and charming to the critical man.
Almost immediately Yenetia came in,
looking very unlike a person who had only
gone to bed when the clock was striking
six. However, her health was perfect, and
she enjoyed the dissipations of a London
season.

"How long may I stay?" asked he,
with a smile.

Oh, until four ! "

How is it you manage to keep the
house so cool this broiling weather ? It
is like Paradise to come into this charming
room. There is such a sense of
completeness and harmony about you,
Venetia."

Thank you. I often think my life is
too smooth, too uneventful. Nothing is
so terribly boring as a tame existence."

I suppose no one is ever satisfied, or,
indeed, able to appreciate good fortune
until it is gone."

'' What, Hubert 1 Are you becoming
philosophical, and going to sentimentalize?"


"Call it what you will. I was wondering
before you came in, why you, who have
everything heart can desire, should wish
to change your condition."

Perhaps because I am tired of such
crumpled rose-leaves, and want to try a
few thorns by way of diversion," she said,
laughing.

Ah ! you won't be serious."

"Yes, I'll be serious enough, Hubert.
Suppose this frivolous life gives me satiety ?
suppose I long for a wider scope ? suppose

I wish to be something more than a mere
butterfly all my days ? "

*' And you think you will find greater
freedom, as well as greater usefulness, in
marriage ? "

"I hope so."

'' But your life would  might be  quite
as useful and noble if you never married."

'' I think differently. Besides, I have
no wish to be an old maid ! "

I really beg your pardon, Venetia, the
thought of your engagement is so new that
I cannot quite realize it yet."

*' So it appears. You must understand,
though, that it is rather too late to hold
out the advantages of single blessedness."

Quite too late, and I am very impertinent."


No ; you are too old a friend to be
impertinent. Is it not dreadful, though,
to think how old we are both getting ? I

am positively twenty-live ! Last week old
Lady Jordan informed me that it was high
time for me to get married, as I was losing
my premiere jeunesse ! Now I do think
that was very impertinent."

Horrible old woman ! her gorgon of
daughters never had any youth."

"Do you think I have lost mj premiere
jeunesse ? " she asked rather coquettishly.

I think you never looked nicer or
handsomer than you do now. Though
you know I have always admired you,
Venetia."

I rather doubt that. I have some very
distinct recollections of certain plain boyish
language, which was by no means complimentary,
years ago. Oh, what a pity it is
we can't remain boys and girls to the end
of the chapter ! It is so much better
fun than being grown up ! Do you remember
old Mrs. Fooling's apple turners

and jam tarts ? Did you ever eat such
delicious tarts ?"

Never since ! Oh, Yenetia ! is it possible
that you, a stately, fashionable young
lady, ever rode a pony bare-backed, and ina
fashion in which young ladies are supposed
not to ride ? " And he laughed
pleasantly.

'' It was the natural way, and much the
best way for a girl with short frocks," she
replied, with a heightened colour. " But I
won't have you telling tales out of school ;
you are only to remember the nice things
of those dear old days''

'' And that remembrance is not pleasant,
I suppose ? "

*' It is decidedly unpleasant to be reminded
that one ever did such undignified
things, even in childhood. But do you
remember that morning when you and
George and I got up at three, and stole

VOL II. I

away to the high woods, and you climbed
that great tree for the wood-pigeon's eggs ?
Coming down, you missed a branch and
fell, and we thought you were killed. Oh,
how frightened I was ! I thought your
nose never would stop bleeding. And
then, when we reached the farm, do
you remember good Mrs. Fooling's alarm
and exclamations ? 

*' ' Lord ha' mussy ! Lord ha' mussy !
whatever have 'ee all a-been a-doing of ? '

And then she took us in, good old
soul ! and washed your bruised face and
hands. While she was mending your
clothes, she said to me, 

'''Laws! Miss Venetia, 'taint proper
for young led dies to go a tomboying, and
a climbing of trees, along with young
gentlemen ! '

I have never been so happy as 1 was
in those wild, free years. I suppose I have

something of the uncivilized barbarian in
me. Ob, how hateful were Miss Knox's
perpetual lectures on propriety ! How she
used to preach to me on the importance of
acquiring an elegant, subdued manner ; of
considering my words before I spoke ; and
so, you see, I was tamed down into conventional
good-breeding."

I don't think you are quite sincere
in saying your earlier years were your
happiest. I imagine a woman's happiest
time is when she feels her power  when she
sees the effect produced on others by her
intelligence and beauty. Surely you,
Venetia, have bad more than an ordinary
share of woman's triumphs ? "

'* That is another question," sbe replied,
absently. ''Of course lam not superior
to vanity," smiling a little sadly. " I
believe my foolish young bead was rather
turned the first two seasons. But all that
I 2

happened so many years ago that I think
we will change the subject."

You have good accounts of all the
boys, I hope ? "

< Very good, thanks ! George is promoted,
Murray working hard for his
degree, and Jack in some scrape as usual.
I am afraid some day he will go beyond a
middy's frolics. But then no one can
keep his spirit down. He must always be
larking,' as he calls it."

Don't fret about him. He is all
right. A few more years, and a little
more responsibility, will make him sober
enough."

I hope so," gravely.

And then she looked at the clock.

That is a hint for me to go."

No. I wish you would stay a little
longer and meet Lord Wandsworth. I
hope you will become friends, Hubert."

You are most kind. I suppose this is
almost the last of our pleasant tete-a-tetes,
Venetia ? "

"I should be sorry to think so."

Ah ! but you see, when you are
married, Lord Wandsworth will expect
tete-a-tetes, and I must be left out in the
cold ! "

I feel sure Lord Wandsworth will give
me perfect liberty as to the choice of my
friends," she said gravely.

He made no rejoinder, thinking, that if
he knew anything of her future husband,
his wife would not in any way be allowed
much liberty of action.

When Edith said to Maynard, she had
heard that he was attached to a young
lady, it was this same Miss Stanley she
had meant. Yenetia had long possessed a
great liking for him ; but she, with her
quick intuition, had seen that Edith, though

SO studiously cold, was really most deeply
attached to the man who was to be her
husband.

Maynard was one of those men who like
the amusement of flirtation, especially when
the flirtation is supposed to be hazardous,
o say the least. So his old friendship with
Miss Stanley had deepened at one time
into something warmer, and if she had
responded there would have been no story
of Dorcas to tell. But Yenetia, though so
friendly and nice to him, knew that it
would be fatal to pass the barrier between
them. She might love him, but he belonged
to Edith, and the idea of attracting
him in any way from his betrothed was
most repulsive to her.

As we know, he once became her lover,
and she was both hurt, and also somewhat
alarmed, by his avowal of love.
But with wonderful tact she made him see

this great mistake, and with still greater
tact continued to be his most intimate
friend.

Such worldly wisdom, however, is not
bought for nothing ; Venetia felt for sometime
"the tread of the black ox " on her
heart. All through that little episode she
had felt sure that the affection Majnard
offered her was not the grand passion of his
life  that was to come.

She hoped, with the entreaty of hope,
that as time went on, he would be drawn
to Edith, whose greatness of character she
most thoroughly appreciated. There was,
however, always the fear that Edith's
completeness, decision, and perhaps coldness,
too, would have the effect of alienating
him from her.

Venetia had had, as Maynard said, great
choice in the way of possible husbands ;
but she had only coquetted with her admirers

in a very charming and fascinating
manner.

Her life was not altogether as smooth
as she had wished Maynard to infer.
For some time she had felt that in all ways
it would be better for her to decide
definitely on the question of her marriage ;
and thinking over many considerations,
she ended by giving Lord Wandsworth the
preference. She imagined she cared for
him sufficiently to make him an excellent
wife, in a sober, unromantic fashion. And
after all, perhaps love and sentiment
were a mistake. Many people were
happy enough without them ! His will
should be hers, and there was an end of
the matter.

Maynard could see she was rather
anxious about something. She had not her
usual calmness, and he attributed her slight
discomposure to the coming interview with

her lover. No word had. been said about
his own trouble. Yenetia saw he shirked
the pain of opening the subject ; and so,
with true kindness and fine breeding, she
let the matter rest for a more suitable
opportunity.

Presently, when they were chatting in
the same friendly fashion, Lord Wandsworth
was announced.

His greeting to his fiancee was sufficiently
deferential, without being too
tender, in the presence of a third person ;
and Maynard thought his manner very
happy.

While they are talking of the latest and
most interesting topics. Lord Wandsworth
must be described, as he is to be Venetia's
husband. He was a very tall man, and
also very broad-shouldered, and though he
was so big, he was not awkward in a room.
He kept his long legs from inelegant,

sprawling positions, and was quite at home
with the manipulation of his hat. He was
unfortunate in possessing the brightest of
bright red hair, and he also wore a very long
moustache, which matched it in colour. The
hair, however, would not have mattered,
it was his eyes which were the chief point,
tor they at once attracted and repelled.
They were of a bluish-grey in colour,
and rather prominent, and their expression
was cold and calculating, with a suspicion
of sullen passion lurking somewhere behind.
But the whole man gave an impression of
power, and of a strength of will and command
which might be terrible if provoked
by resistance. About him, however, there
was always a cynical, languid air of good-breeding,
which possessed a certain charm
for Yenetia, who was herself full of vivacity
and satire.

After a few minutes Maynard rose and

left them, and proceeded very thoughtfully
across the park.

Yenetia's choice of Lord Wandsworth
astonished him ; it was so clearly a
mariage de convenance on her part. A
dangerous precedent, he thought, for an
impulsive, sensitive woman, who had
hitherto been the first esjwit in her family
ruling father, mother, and brothers alike
with a high-handed, but loving, tyranny.

Now Maynard knew Lord Wandsworth
would expect wonderful obedience from his
wife ; for he considered himself rather a
great personage, and imagined that even
Miss Stanley should feel honoured by his
preference.

So Maynard, far withdrawn from the
busy crowd, thought on many complex
things. Perhaps the suspicion that Venetia
was more attached to himself than she
would allow, made him think again and

again that she had been rash. But naturally
such an idea made the beautiful,
fascinating woman doubly attractive to him.
Still, he argued, many such marriages
ended more happily than others, which
began with the wildest romance, and ended
in indifference, or worse.

At one time he had been a cynic on the
subject of the tender passion, voting everything
that tended to disturb a man's life
from well-bred calm a mistake ! Then the
quondam cynic fell to thinking of Dorcas.

CHAPTER V.

Dumb jewels often, in their silent kind,
More quick than words, do move a woman's mind."
Too Gentlemen of Verona, Act iii. Sc. 1.

Your love deserves my thanks ; but my desert,
Inevitable, shuns your high request."

Richard III., Act iii. Sc. 7.

Two mornings after Edith's visit to Dorcas,
she and Harry were as usual at breakfast
together ; the Squire always had his taken
up to his bedroom at an earlier hour by
John. Harry, who was deep in the County
Chronicle, suddenly exclaimed, 

I say, here's a mysterious advertisement
: ' If the lady who, on the morning
of the 2nd inst., called at Mr. Finger's,

goldsmith, and jeweller, and transacted
some business, will favour Mr. Finger
by calling again at lier earliest convenience,
Mr. Ringmer will be extremely obliged.'
Now, I wonder what the dickens that's
all about ? Some woman has been buying
or selling some jewellery, and has got in a
scrape, I expect."

Edith said nothing; a dull, sickening
feeling came over lier ; she beard a buzzing
in her ears ; the chairs and tables, and
Harry, were all making extraordinary revolutions
in the air, and she with them. She
seized hold of the table to prevent herself
from falling until she regained her composure.
And Harry, behind his paper,
was chattering on, quite unconscious that
his sister was staring at him, with eyes
that were fixed, and which looked strange
and terrible, with her death-like face. It
was only for a minute or so, and then the

faintness passed, and the brave woman
gave no sign, except that lie leaned lier
throbbing bead on ber band. Presently
Harry rose, and lazily stretched himself
as be stood by the window with his back
to his sister.

'' Oh, Edith, I forgot to tell you that
Cranston asked me over for some cricket,
and to dine with him, so I shan't be back
until eleven or twelve. I'll work extra
hard tomorrow, you know, to make up.-
By the bye, could you lend me a sovereign ?
It's so deuced awkward to have no tin if
they want to play ' nap ' or Hoo.' '*

No, Harry ; I have no money," she

said calmly.

*' Then I'll have to play for my watch as

stakes, I suppose ? "

Don't stake anything, Harry. I am

afraid Mr. Cranston is not the best of

companions for you."

** That's what you always say if a fellow
shows me a little kindness. At any rate, I
get some fun, and a jolly good dinner;
and Mary Cranston is such a nice little
girl, you know, Edith."

'' Well, go and enjoy yourself, Harry ;
play as much cricket and tennis as you
like, but eschew ' nap.' Good-bye."

For once she was thankful he was going
out to some distance, and in a direction
contrary to that of the cathedral city.
She rose slowly, feeling her knees shaking
under her at first, and picking up the
newspaper, dropped into a chair by the
open window. Accustomed generally to
bad fortune, she was apprehensive of the
worst in this case; the advertisement
could only mean that Mr. Finger had
found the worth of the jewels far short of
the price he had given, and that he expected
her to refund it, when all that

remained to her was 7s. 9d., not much
more than would suffice for her railway
fare to and from Eastminster. To whom
could she go for a loan ? There was Mr.
Anstey ; but she felt, that notwithstanding
all their long years of acquaintance, the
Ansteys were not friends to whom she
could lay bare the troubles of her life.
And then Mr. Anstey, in speaking to
Mr. Finch, had lacked that fine discretion
which a better gentleman than he would
have used. No, the Ansteys were impossible.
Then she suddenly remembered
that her maid-servants were continually
remarking that old John was a miser. She
herself had often thought that old bureau
of her faithful servant probably held a
good deal of cash ; for John trembled at
the name of a bank, and persisted in keeping
his small hoards in his own hands.
Faithful as he was, his mistress never-vol.

II. K

tireless had some reluctance to borrow
from him. However, there was no help
for it. So she rang the bell, and presently
when the table was clear, the cloth
removed, and the vase of flowers duly
returned, she said nervously, 

John, could you lend me five or ten
pounds until the rents are paid ? "

*' Ten pound or twenty pound, gladly,
Miss Edith. Now, you'll think I am
taking a liberty, but I have often wondered
ye're never asked me afore, when I knows
as you've been short and driven to by
Mr. Harry's games. Sometimes I have
thought as I would offer it, but, you know,
Miss Edith, I thought as you might be
hurt. But surely 'ain't no wrong for me
to give ye back some o' your own, when I
ha' lived all these years with you, and
eaten your bread and drank of your cup.
Why, the long and the short of it is, Miss

Edith, that I feel myself to be one of the
family  a very humble member, you know'*
said the old man huskily.

You are very kind, John."

There's another matter. Miss Edith,
that I wish I knew the rights of," he continued
wistfully.

'* I think I shall borrow ten pounds
instead of five, John," she returned, looking
into his face proudly, and he knew he
had dared to say too much.

'' I'll bring the cash down immediate,
ma'am ; but don't let they in the kitchen,"
with an expressive gesture of his thumb
over his shoulder, " know nought about
it. Miss Edith. It's just a little matter of
business between you and me. But it
would not be for the credit of the family
if 'twas known you had borrowed of your
servant."

The old man's fidelity and staunchness
K 2

gave lier a fillip she sorely needed, though
it hurt her that John should suspect the
truth as to how things were between
Maynard and herself. After all, perhaps,
her fears as regarded those unhappy jewels
were groundless, and anyhow John s loan
would keep her from the disagreeable
position of being unable to pay her debt
to Mr. Ringmer, if debt there were. So
when later she drove along briskly towards
the station, her courage somewhat revived.
It was a magnificent morning, a day of
rejoicing amongst the anxious farmers, for
this bright and powerful sun would bring
on the corn after the wet weather of
the previous week. Another thing that
cheered her was the thought of the reconciliation
of Dorcas to her father. The
attempted good was accomplished, and the
painful victory over her own proud resisting
heart partly, if not wholly, won.

As she passed che farm lie distinctly
heard Dorcas through the open windows
singing tastefully some difficult exercise ;
but her voice sounded less full than usual.
Then as she drove on her thoughts
naturally fell upon Dorcas and Maynard.
How would it all end ? How easily everything
might be arranged if Sir William
would consent to the marriage ; but Edith
shared with Maynard the conviction that
the intensely proud man would never consent
to such an alliance. Remembering
that she herself was a great favourite of
the lonely, reserved baronet, she hated to
be in any way guilty of deception towards
him. She felt she would like to unburden
her heart to him, and would also like to
plead for Maynard. But it was for the
latter to make the first move towards confiding
in his uncle. When Edith reached
the city it appeared to be more busy

than usual ; then lie remembered it was
market-day, and taking a more quiet way
through the palace-yard and close, soon
found herself at Mr. Ringmer's shop, in
which there were a good many people.
She hesitated a moment before addressing
him, as he was engaged with a lady ; but
the lady was just leaving, and immediately
Mr. Ringmer bowed to Edith with a look
of recognition, saying, 

May I trouble you to come into this
room, madam? "

Edith followed him with all her fears
revived.

I am come in answer to your advertisement,
which I imagined was addressed
to me."

Exactly, madam."

I hope  I am sorry," she said nervously.


*' Pray be under no apprehension ; I

have made a most interesting and happy
discovery in that antique Genoese silver
necklace you sold me. A discovery,
madam, which will surprise and please
you, I think, as much as it has myself."

What is your discovery ? "

You will be surprised, I am sure,
when I tell you that that old tarnished
silver necklace held diamonds for which I
will give you 1500?. ! "

'' One thousand five hundred pounds ! I
don't understand you'* said Edith faintly;
and again the tables and chairs began their
extraordinary performance in the air. She
pulled off her veil for air, for freedom ;
she felt so helpless  the joy, the emancipation,
was too great. Mr. Ringmer, who
had previously had more than a suspicion
who his customer was, now recognized
her.

Pardon me, madam, the heat has overpowered

you ; let me get you a glass of
sherry," and without waiting for an answer
the good jeweller hastened to bring his
distinguished customer a glass of his best
wine.

Presently, when she was better, he
brought in the old, beautifully-worked
necklace.

Pardon me, madam, but I think I have
the honour of addressing Miss Fleming
of Carstone Hall ? "

Edith bowed.

*' I inferred that from one of those
bracelets bearing your mother's, the late
Mrs. Fleming's, name. You will of
course wish to have all those jewels in
your possession again. I shall be most
happy to return them, and to pay you
cool for the diamonds."

Are they really worth cool ?

*' Well, Miss Fleming, they are really
worth a little more ; but  but, you see, I

must probably wait some time before I can
realize mj outlay, and therefore I have
thought my offer an honest and equitable
one, all round."

'' I think you are dealing very handsomely
with me, Mr. Ringmer ; and  and
I am much obliged to you for keeping this
matter so quiet. You may imagine that
only an unhappy necessity obliged me to
part with those jewels."

Now, Miss Fleming, allow me to
show you the wonderful mechanism of this
necklace. When I had time to examine it,
it struck me as being remarkably heavy
for its size, always supposing those spaces
were hollow and not solid. I assure you
it made me very curious as to what could
possibly make it so much heavier than it
ought to be. So I determined to bore a
small hole in the pendant. I did ; and
when the aperture revealed a glitter which
I recognized from experience, I knew I

had come on a great find. Here, you see,
is the hole I bored as an experiment.
Now, as I did not want to spoil the necklace,
and as I felt sure each apparently
hollow space was filled with precious stones,
I subjected the workmanship of the necklace
to a very powerful magnifier, and
discovered that each hollow space had
been very delicately soldered after the
jewels had been put in. To remove the
solder without injuring the original fabric
was a delicate operation ; but, you see, I
have done it, and, I think, successfully.
Now, madam, from these hollow spaces, in
all eighteen, I have removed twenty-four
brilliant of different sizes and of the first
water. Here they are." And there on
blue velvet lay the glittering stones.

"While Edith held the case wonderingly
in her hand, Mr. Ringmer observed,

It would be very interesting if you
could trace the history of that necklace.

Those brilliant have probably been concealed
in it for more than two hundred
years. May I ask if you ever had an
Italian or even a foreign ancestor ? "

Yes, certainly ; the Countess di Castiglione
was married to Ei chard Fleming
in 1621."

Then, madam, that is the origin of
your necklace. Strange," he continued
musingly, " its worth should never have
been suspected. Before you absolutely
agree to my price. Miss Fleming, I should
prefer to have these diamonds valued by
some other jeweller. I think, to the best
of my belief, that my decision is a just
one. Nevertheless wee will have another
opinion."

I am extremely indebted to you, Mr.
Ringmer; but that sounds singular. I
will say it is only what I expected from
you," and then Edith smiled her royal
smile.

'' Madam, as an honest man, I have only
done my duty. I shall be in no hurry to
sell these brilliant ; so at any future time
when you may wish to repurchase them, I
hope they may be in my possession ; and
really, Miss Fleming, such a romantic and
timely source of wealth should not be lost
to your family."

"Indeed no, Mr. Ringmer; I trust some
day they may be repurchased''

Mr. Finger felt very sure they would
be, and perhaps before very long ; for
was not Miss Fleming to be, in course of
time. Lady Maynard of Carrington Park,
that charming and magnificent place in the
next county ?

When Edith was again in the street, she
hardly knew where she was,  she was so
confused. One thousand five hundred
pounds ! Just then it seemed to be a
mine of wealth to the poverty-stricken
lady. She went on as in some dream to

the confectioner's, where she ordered
lunch, and while waiting for it dotted
down various heavy items  bills which
even her care and thrift had not been
able to clear off except by small instalments
; but now this god-send would
clear everything off and leave her free with
more than a thousand pounds in hand.

Free ! a blessed word to her, who had so
long felt the terrible thraldom of debt.
Lunch was soon despatched. Then she
bent her steps to the grand cathedral.
What had changed her so ? Stow she
walked with such a free, commanding step,
that people were impressed ; they had not
observed her bent head, her lingering,
faltering walk, two hours before on the same
day. The bell was ringing for afternoon
service. She passed through the sleepy
close into the solemn quiet of the grand
nave. 'No noise there ;  a hushed footfall
now and then,  the echo of the shutting of

a door or gate in the distance by the
verger returning with a party of people
whom he had been taking round to
see the different chapels. She walked
slowly towards the choir, and entering was
shown by the verger to a seat. Ah, how
she wanted to give thanks to Almighty
God ! How her whole being yearned to
express gratitude for the great gift she had
received ! So the stately lady knelt until
the service began. The anthem for the
day was, '' I waited for the Lord." Inexpressibly
beautiful were those words and
exquisite voices to the bereaved woman.
One great want had been realized.
Another the greatest desire of her life,
that her betrothed husband might love her,
had vanished for ever. She must wait on
the Lord. She must possess her soul in
patience. Time would bring the work
appointed her. Meanwhile she must wait.

As the service proceeded, poor Edith knelt,
while those beautiful prayers, so expressive
of all our wants, were reverently read.

She was not a heroine to resist tears of
thankfulness, and heavy tears were falling
under her thick veil. . . . The service is
over, and the deep rich notes of the organ
fill the whole space with solemn rolling
sound ; the white-robed priests and
choristers precede the congregation, and
soon the music stops, the nave is empty,
and then Edith, who still lingers in the
shadows, unwilling to leave the peaceful
calm, feels that she too must go back into
the noisy unquiet world and garish day.
. . But with the sunshine and the busy
crowds jostling each therewith's thoughts
immediately became practical. First she
referred to the time-table to see at what
hour the last train left the city for Exton.

Then, feeling wondrous rich, she went to

various shops and made many purchases
for her father and brother, who would be
much gratified by receiving sundry small
things which add to the pleasure and
elegance of life. This most unexpected
windfall would enable her to dispense with
many poor little economies which she had
been obliged to practise. How often had
she, for instance, felt grieved when the old
squire, who loved generous living, would
observe that such and such a fish was in
season. Why did she not order some, and
why was not the menu more varied ? &c.,
&c. Now, as she passed along, she realized
her new delightful power to make her
father's declining days happier. He was
fast reaching that last sad stage of all,
when the mere physical gratification of
dinner is the greatest event of life.

For years Edith had managed everything.
Possibly her father imagined she

was very mean, or a bad manager, for lie
could never be made to understand how
terribly poor they were.

Miss Fleming visited the fishmonger
and wine merchant ; and it certainly was an
immense gratification to order some fine
Burgundy for her father. Not until
John's nine pounds odd were expended did
she recover from her fit of extravagance and
hurry to the station ; when the number of
her packages made her feel some dismay
as to the powers of Billy, the pony, and
her little carriage, to transport her new
possessions home from Exton.

The old porter smiled when she alighted
with such an unusual amount of luggage
at the little station.

Keep charge of these, Johnson, will
you, while I go for the pony and chaise ? "

Ay, ay, miss ; the pony has got a load
home to-night, and no mistake."

VOL. II. L

By-and-by the driver sat proudly surrounded
by spoils,  so many parcels, and
onebeavycase demanding anxious attention.

Choosing a back way through the town,
she was soon in the open country among
the sweet-scented hedgerows, and under
the tall, still trees; and then, as Billy trotted
on, sbe sang very low, ' I waited for the
Lord." When sbe neared the farm, as it
lay nestled among the lofty elms, lights
were showing faintly in the windows, and
the evening air brought down a sweet
perfume from the garden. Looking still
on the picturesque outline and gables of
the old bouse, as sbe was gradually leaving
it behind, sbe was much startled by a
figure wbicb stopped as sbe was slowly
passing on.

*' Dorcas ! " sbe exclaimed ; " is it you ?
How you frightened me ! " pulling up
abruptly.

I am so sorry. Old Betty sent for me
to see Nellie; she is dying."

Is she, poor girl ?  but she was better
yesterday."

She has had a sudden relapse," returned
Dorcas in a low tone, suggestive of
tears falling unseen in the dusk.

It is better she should be at rest," said
Edith gently.

Poor Nellie's story was a sad one.

Oh, Dorcas, I have such good news
for you ! "

What good news ? " said the other
hurriedly, and laying her hand on her
heart.

A good fairy has sent me some money,
dear ; and now you will be able to go to
London, and poor Harry too. Is not that
good news ? "

'' I don't understand"

You will understand tomorrow ; I
L 2

shall be down soon after breakfast. Meantime
go home and build castles in the air ;
imagine you are a magnificent success;
imagine you are just commanded by the
Queen to sing at "Windsor Castle ! and
anything else that seems impossible now.
Oh, Dorcas, what a blessed thing to have
had a good fairy in a great, great, great-grandmother
! No, dear, don't look so
alarmed; I am not altogether demented,
though I feel just now rather light-headed
from sheer joy. Good-night, child ; dream,
dream of coming honours," and Edith
drove on in the dusk, leaving Dorcas
standing half-disappointed. Alas ! she had
hoped the good news was of some different
import.

*' Good Lord ! Miss Edith ; then ye're
really back at last. The squire he waited
dinner till nigh eight,  such dinner as it

I am so glad  I am so sorry, I mean,
JoTiii. Pray take some of these things out.
Is my father asleep ? "

Yes, miss. Well, now, but ye're clone
a good day's shopping  ay, and fish too !
I'd better take it down to the cellar at
once. I hope they've had the sense to
pack it in ice, else it 'uU never keep for
the morrow's dinner. Now, Miss Edith,
I'll sort all this while's you take off your
things. There's a nice bit of chicken hot
force, and the table laid all ready for ye
in the breakfast-room, for I thought you
would not care to disturb the master in
the dining-room ; and I daresay now,
miss, so careless are ye of your own comfort,
that ye have not had a bit of lunch
the whole day."

Yes, John, I had some lunch at
Grote's."

The next morning Edith, full of a new

buoyancy, walked down to the farm, and
soon unfolded to the astonished Dorcas
her schemes for the future. The latter
listened very pale, touched keenly by the
other's generosity.

Edith," she said at length, when the
former had expounded all her theories
with great enthusiasm, " you know about
the coals of fire in Scripture, * If thine
enemy hunger, feed him ; if he thirst, give
him drink.' "

'' Oh, Dorcas, I have meant no coals of
fire"

No, no," said the other gently; "you
have only followed the generous promptings
of a noble spirit ; but they are coals of
fire, nevertheless. Edith," she continued,
clasping her hands tightly, and dropping
her voice, " only God knows from what
horror you have saved me. At first I was so
overwhelmed with shame that I thought 

I thought of ending mj misery, you know
death is a coward's last resource ; you
know too how you came and saved me
from that last awful guilt."

Oh, Dorcas, it could not have been so
terrible as that," almost whispered the
other.

It was. I felt as if I had lost everything
worth having. You, standing so
high, so faultless, stooped to me, and held
out your hand and saved me."

Dorcas, you must not think me so
faultless. I was not generous enough to
forgive you at first. I did feel anger
against you. It was of short duration
and perhaps unjust."

Unjust ! no ; it was right and
natural."

"Very natural, I'll admit. You see I
have all my life had others whose interests
have, so to speak, been bound up in

that unhappy marriage arrangement of
mine."

Ah, yes."

An eloquent pause followed, during
which the girls seemed to have relatively
changed their position; for now it was
Dorcas who was perfectly self-possessed,
while Edith was agitated.

Edith, may I ask you one question ?  it
is one I have no right to ask, but so much
depends on your answer. Is it impossible
for you to forgive Captain Maynard ?  can
he never be what he once was ?  cannot
things settle down as they were before he
was tempted into wrong by me ? "

No, no ; I have forgiven him ; but it
is all over between us for ever. He never
loved me."

But he might ; he might when  "

"Dorcas, don't belie your own heart;
you know he will never love any woman

but yourself ; and, further, could you bear
his faithlessness ? "

'' I would bear anything ; I would give
you my life if by so doing I could undo
my wrong to you."

'' I ask nothing so hard, dear," returned
Edith gently ; '' I only ask complete obedience
to my wishes and commands  yes,
commands, Dorcas. You must let me
have my revenge in my own way, you
know."

'' Yes, the coals of fire. I perfectly
understand."

Then they both made an effort to turn
from the subject, which caused each immeasurable
pain.

*' Mrs. Anstey called yesterday, and  and
talked for an hour to me for my good. I
must say it was exceedingly disagreeable,"
said Dorcas with a smile. " Why does she
always look at me as if I were some strange

animal? Oh, Edith, I do detest that
woman. I really believe she was glad of
the opportunity of preaching to me, and
telling me that so far my whole life had been
a mistake. I believe she was glad she could
insult me with impunity. I know she
enjoyed seeing me wince and blush under
her cruel words. Human nature, however,
could not bear long with meekness such a
cross-examination as she tried to subject
me to, so I fired up in return. She
spoke  she spoke to me as if I had no
modesty left. What right had she to
insult me so? She spoke to me as if I
were an ignorant, shameless girl ! And shea
clergyman's wife ! who should have remembered
our Saviour's tenderness  *'

Oh, I am so sorry, Dorcas ; but you
know she is not wise in her judgments and
prejudices. Really I cannot think she
meant to wound you so."

"Ah, that is just what she wished todo.
She rejoiced to see my humiliation,
and her hatred of me drove her too far.
Had she been kind and gentle I should
have been penitent enough. She might
have said anything, if she had said it with
the sincere wish to point out my error ;
but she has always disliked me. She has
never forgiven me for having received a
better education than her own daughters ;
and as plainly as she dared she has always
prophesied some such trouble as that
which has fallen upon me. I protest,
Edith, such a cruel, vulgar woman would
soon make me loathe the very name of
religion if she were the only exponent of
Christian charity and forgiveness ! "

Just then Dorcas looked very unlike a
lowly penitent, with her flashing eyes and
heightened delicate colour, and Edith understood
that a man must indeed be insensible

to a woman's charm and loveliness
if he could resist such subtle fascination.

I see sou will never forgive poor Mrs.
Anstey. I imagine after all, Dorcas, she
had the worst of the encounter," and
Edith laughed softly.

If  if I was rude she brought it on
herself ; however, don't let us talk of her
any more. She always manages to rub
me up the wrong way."

'' I confess she is not an agreeable
woman, but I feel sure she tries to do her
duty according to her own lights."

Perhaps so. I am afraid my father
won't hear of my going to Madame Baroniae
has such strong prejudices against
things that at all savour of publicity. I
am afraid you won't convince him. If
poor Aunt Milicent were alive, I could
have gone to Paris, and dear old Signer
Godolphin could have taught me as he

wished. But, anyhow, I can't stay here.
Everything is changed. Father has forgiven
me, but nothing can ever be the
same again between us. When he looks
at me I see there is something gone out of
his face,  some sweet expression of pride
with which he use to regard me ; and
something else is there instead,  a kind of
sorrowful regret and yearning that breaks
my heart. Ah, you don't know how I feel
in his presence ; I remember only too well
how I have fallen. Poor mother, too,
follows me about with such pathetic eyes,
and is so kind, that I often wish she would
scold me. I must go away and begin life
afresh, and perhaps in time I may be able
to forgive myself."

Come, Dorcas, you must not despair.
I think I shall be able to persuade your
father, but still there's the doubt whether
Madame will be able to take you. She may

have no room for another pupil, and  and
perhaps, dear, she may think your voice,
beautiful as it is, has not sufficient
strength  "

The strength will come. I am out of
health now. Perhaps  indeed, it is very
likely  she will reject me. If so, I must be
less ambitious, and earn my bread in some
other way."

*' Well, at any rate, we will look on the
bright side. My first step after I have
secured your father's permission will be to
write to Lady Charles Stanley, who is a
personal friend of Madame' s, and whose
recommendation will do great things.
Then I must write to some coach about
Harry's exam. Really I am getting quite
a woman of business, and, what is more, I
mean to be successful in all my projects,
you dejected Dorcas ! Now, you are to
come up with me and stay until tomorrow

evening; we will have a grand practice
to-niofht  no refusal. Is not that your
father's voice in the pasture ? I will go
down and meet him there."

Miss Edith, I know well enough how
clever and wise you are, but in this matter
I think my judgment, being a man and a
being a father too, is better than yours,"
said the yeoman when Edith had broached
her proposal.

But, Mr. Finch, what possible harm
can happen to Dorcas, when she will be
strictly one of Madame Saroni's family
circle ? "

Ay, ay. Miss Edith ; but ye do forget
all the temptations o' London, and, oh,
there's many a guileful man lying in wait
to tempt young, innocent maids, specially
when they're so comely as Dorcas."

But you don't understand. Dorcas
would be subjected to no temptation.

She, like other pupils, would always be
more or less under Madame's supervision.
She would have to work hard at stated
hours, and of course when she went out to
any place of entertainment, or even in
her daily walks, she would be properly
chaperoned." ,

Eh, now, that's a grand word ; I suppose
it do mean as some 'possible body
would be with her and take care of her."

Exactly, Mr. Finch. Now, I really
shall be more hurt and disappointed than
I can express if you won't consent to my
wishes."

Well, you know, ma'am, I wouldn't
vex you for the world ; but the truth is I
ha' na' got much opinion of those public
singing women. I don't think as I could
bear to see Dorcas a standing up before
any as might choose to look at her  nasty,
coarse-minded men as might make remarks

on her. No, no; I'd a deal rather she
should keep poor and unnoticed."

Now, I daresay you remember a Miss
Yenetia Stanley who came here some years
ago."

'' Ay, I do mind her  a wild, handsome,
slip of a young lady she was too."

"Well, Lady Charles Stanley is very
friendly with Madame Saroni. Now, you
know that unless Madame Saroni were a
nice good lady Lady Charles would not be
one of her friends."

*' Of course she wouldn't be, Miss Edith.
But that's just what I can't understand : a
lady of the nobility friendly with a singing
missus ! It goes clean against my judgment
to believe it."

*' But it is quite true."

Of course 'tis, Miss Edith, when you
say it. Well, I am feared ye' 11 persuade
me 'gainst my will, so I'd best go. I'll

VOL. II. M

just say neither yea nor nay, until I have
thought over it a bit. But  but I think,
as ye are so wonderful kind and so wonderful
bent on it, that ye might just send
a line, as ye said," and with a smile the
yeoman hurried away, saying. '' I dare
not stay no longer, Miss Edith, or ye'll
make me promise outright."

Then Edith felt she had won the day.

CHAPTER VI.

'tis the curse in love, and still approved
When women cannot love where they're beloved."
Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act v. So. 4.

Upon thy cheek lay I this zealous kiss,
As seal to the indenture of my love."

King John, Act ii. Sc. 1

Miss Stanley had always been much sought
in the fashionable world, but since her
engagement, with the prospect of a still
more brilliant future before her as the
Countess of Wandsworth, she became
doubly and trebly the fashion. In her
heart she despised the adulation she received,
and yet she did receive it, for at
the time it gratified her vanity. It was
only when she was alone, when the lights
were out, the garlands dead, the glamour
M 2

faded, that lie realized the true worth of
her triumph. " Triumph ?  was it not a
thing to be ashamed of rather?" she thought
when she possessed sufficient courage and
introspection to gauge the true motives of
her marriage.

Captain Majnard was meeting her somewhere
or another every day, for the end of
the season was approaching and engagements
to every possible kind of charming
parties were thick and numerous before
friends dispersed to Scotland, their country
houses, or the continent. Much as he
wished to see her, he found a tete-astute under
existing circumstances impossible. One
day during a delightful water-party on the
Thames, and a picnic in the lovely woods
of Cliefden, he hoped he might find his
opportunity; but no. Lord Wandsworth
and others monopolized her, and he could
only get a few common-place words in the

hearing of everybody. However, fortune
favoured him the next day, in bis finding
her alone in that pleasant drawing-room
before mentioned. He would certainly
have been much flattered if he had known
how much and how constantly her mind
had been filled with conjecture respecting
the nature of that trouble which he had
mentioned to her.

Every day she realized more and more
how great and momentous was the step
she had just taken. The first excitement
had worn off, and she had begun to
learn something more of her future husband's
character, and understood that he
was such a man that she would either be a
happy wife, or the most wretched of women.
There would be no half-measures with him.
Maynard's return had in truth disturbed
her. In his absence his power and sweetness
were forgotten ; his presence revived

old associations painfully, and had lie been
less determined and proud, she might have
tortured herself by contrasting the two
men. Buff a sentiment of loyalty to Lord
Wandsworth prevented her from allowing
any such contrast to be made. Meanwhile
her mother. Lady Charles Stanley, was
busied with milliners, jewellers, and other
people  Venetia herself took little interest
in her trousseau. Even when the famous
Wandsworth diamonds were brought for
her inspection and suggestions as to their
resetting, she showed no enthusiasm.
They were of course magnificent, and they
were part of the price for which she was
selling herself! Why had she sold herself?


A certain sense of self-condemnation and
pity for Lord Wandsworth was rising
already in her heart. He was asking for
bread, and she would give him a stone !

As far as he understood the sweet passion
of love, he did love her ; therefore was she
not doing him an injury ?

Maynard at once saw that something of
her vivacity had vanished in this last fortnight,
and it struck him that life at the
best was but a game of cross-purposes.
Venetia took a low chair where no
gleams of light should reach her face ; but
her companion, not so wise, sat where
every reflex of emotion, as it touched
him, was plainly visible.

He told his story, at first with great
embarrassment, but waxing almost eloquent
as he went on, while she listened
apparently unmoved, but with her heart
wrung for Edith. She almost laughed
when he insisted on Edith's want of affection
as his justification.

Blind, blind, blundering man ! she
thought ; but as she listened she was extremely

thankful that her own liking for
him had never tempted her to be disloyal
to Edith. If she had been disloyal, how
terrible her punishment would have been ! 
for she knew he now loved as he had never
loved before. It revealed a new phase in his
character to her ; he appeared to be quite
altered ; there was a restless, anxious, impassioned
sort of unhappiness about him,
that removed him altogether from his
former condition of a calm, slightly-bored,
nil admirer man of the world. Venetia
was undecided whether she liked him
so well in this new disturbed state of
mind ; after a time she thought the easy
indifference of the past was preferable.
Great emotions, she knew, were severely
fatiguing, and her companion looked absolutely
ill from the effects of trouble.

Now, Yenetia, let me hear your verdict ;
I know it's all against me, for I have read

censure in your eyes ever since I have been
speaking."

Yes, my verdict is all against you. I
am so disappointed in you. I have been
weak enough to think you were something
of a Bayard, and now by your confession
I find my ideal but common clay."

'' Say rather a man with all a man's
weakness and inconsistency,"

*' Ah ! but men should not be weak. I
cannot understand your blindness to the
great wrong and insult you have put
upon Edith."

If she had loved"

Don't say that, Hubert ; it has nothing
whatever to do with your obligation to her."

Pardon me, I think it has everything
to do with it. Do you imagine for a
moment I could have been such a cold-blooded
villain ? "

Venetia felt herself in a difficulty. In one

way Maynard's blindness was a blessed
thing ; as things were he must never be
enlightened about his mistake.

Well, we will leave that point ; but how
can you possibly excuse yourself for staying
on, the guest of a deeply injured lady,
while, by your own showing, you were
making love to her rival ? Hubert, you have
forfeited your character of gentleman. If
Edith did not love you before, I should
think she almost hates you now."

"Your judgment is harsh," he said
passionately. " You  you forget the hardness
of the situation for me, and the
temptation of an exquisite woman's love."

Perhaps I am harsh ; but, you see, I was
thinking of my ideal Bayard ! " she said
gently.

For heaven's sake give me a little
comfort."

I don't know in what way I can comfort

you ; you have brought yourself and
others into such an unhappy position that
you must necessarily be very unhappy ; 
but what do you propose to do, Hubert ? "
asked she, narrowly scrutinizing the keen
high-bred face opposite to her.

'' What can I do ? "

'' If I were in your place," she said
slowly, " I should go down to Carrington,
and confide the whole story to your uncle."

*' That would be simple ruin ! He ever
consent to my marriage, when you know
he's half crazy upon the question of purity
of blood ! "

But anything clandestine or underhand
is so unlike you, Hubert."

*' I must deceive him," he said, flushing
hotly.

'' I think Sir William is so kind that he
could hardly resist your pleading if you
went to him manfully and honourably;

but I am quite sure lie would never forgive
you if you deliberately deceived him.
Do be guided by me : go to him. There
is something in deceit which is so mean
and unworthy."

Of course anything of the kind is hateful
; but what right has he or any other
man to disinherit me because I am attached
to a sweet woman not quite my equal in
rank ? You know how I love Carrington ;
it would be hard to lose it."

"I thought  I understood  that the
young lady had refused you."

'' Yes, but she will not, she cannot,
always refuse me."

'' I see you have much reliance on your
powers of persuasion,"  with a smile.

** Don't jest, Yenetia ; don't you see
how serious a matter it is with me ? "

Yes, very serious, Hubert. Bear with
me when I say that your proposal of a

private marriage is a very cruel one. I
really don't understand you ; your trouble
lias changed you so much. May I say it
has not improved you ? "

Is that all the comfort you can give
me ? I come to you as my one greatest
friend, and you tell me that I "

You ask my advice, but you won't
follow it. One thing I certainly do advise :
pray leave London at once ; you are
so unhinged and unlike yourself, that
you seem to me on the verge of a serious
illness."

'' Yes, I am ill in mind and body ; both
seem all wrong. Well, if I died, there
would be an end of the question."

Certainly, for yourself ; but you must
remember there are others to be considered
too."

At this moment a man brought in a
letter from the afternoon post. Venetia

recognized Edith's writing, and let the
letter remain on the table. She had an
idea that she had better not open it in
Maynard's presence. In truth she began
to wish he would leave her.

'' So the engagement is still imagined to
be intact ? "

Yes ; what can we do ? Old Fleming
is so unreasonable, he would be a perfect
madman if he suspected the truth."

A wonderfully pleasant position you
have placed Edith in, I must say ! "

'' Don't Yenetia," he said, as if she had
struck him. " You know I am powerless
to save Edith the annoyance of such a
supposition, but what can I do ? "

'' Exactly, what can you do ? If I
were given to moralizing, I would say you
ought to have thought of all your obligations
before you fell so desperately in love
with the beautiful Dorcas."

Do you think then I did not ? "

Tf you lead resolutely thought of the
suffering you were bringing on two women,
you would have left Carstone weeks before
you did, Hubert."

I did not think you would be so hard
to me, Yenetia."

You could never have imagined for a
moment, Hubert, that I should approve of
your conduct ? " she said haughtily.

*' Certainly not."

If I were not so old a friend I should
not dare to tell you the truth. I do
hope you will remember that you still
owe a duty to Edith. You appear to
forget how great a sacrifice you have
asked of her. She is poor, and from
your breach of trust she loses her rightful
fortune."

Don't I know it all ? Venetia, don't
reproach me further ; I cannot bear it."

I say also, Hubert, that until Edith
can openly give you your freedom, you
have no right to persecute Dorcas ; I like
her for refusing you now. She sees more
clearly than you do the depth of your
wrong to the woman to whom you were
bound by every tie of honour. Now, if I
have said hard things to you, you must
forgive me. Remember, I am always your
friend. Good-bye ; I must ask you to leave
me now."

When he was gone she wearily put both
hands to her forehead.

Poor Edith ! " she exclaimed ; *' why
does everything go wrong in this wretched
world?"

Presently she remembered her letter,
but before reading it she rang the bell.

I am not at home to any one but Lord
Wandsworth, James."

Then she read the letter.

Car stone Hall, July 16th.
My dear Yenetia,

"It is a long time since I have
written to you, and even now my letter is
somewhat of a begging nature ; but of that
presently. You may imagine I was extremely
surprised to read in the Times the announcement
of your engagement to Lord Wandsworth.
May I say that I was a little hurt
that I had not heard from you yourself
of such a very interesting occurrence in
your life ? Pray accept my kindest and
best wishes, dear Yenetia, and perhaps
you will, in answer to this, tell me something
more than I have learned from a
newspaper of the new tie you have formed.
I am charmed to think that you are to be,
with the exception of the duchess, our
greatest lady in the county. It is just
the position for you. Some people are
born to be great, and you are one of them.

VOL. II. N

I can't imagine you without a certain
amount of state about you. It is not
flattering you to tell you that you will be
one of the most beautiful and fascinating
of countesses ! It is rather singular that,
after a childhood so intimately connected
as was ours, our later paths in life
should have so completely diverged. But
you shine in an exalted sphere  a star of
the first brilliance,  whereas my light is
very small, and not brilliant at all. I was
much interested in what Captain Maynard
lately told me of you. He holds you inmost
affectionate regard, evidently rejoicing
in all your triumphs, and in the adulation
you receive. Your warm friendship
has been of inestimable benefit to him."
(At those words Yenetia blushed painfully.)
'' And now to the object of my letter. I
have here a young friend who is most
desirous of becoming a professional singer.

From my own judgment I certainly
think she has great reason to hope for
success after she has received the necessary
tuition. Her voice is of rare sweetness,
depth, and clearness ; her ear perfect ; her
instinct and modulation fine ; so, you see,
there is good material to work upon. Now
I believe Lady Charles knows Madame
Saroni intimately. Will she be so very
kind as to give me an introduction to
Madame, and also use her influence for
my friend. Miss Finch ? The latter is both
from natural taste and education a lady,
and also a most lovely girl, possessing
infinite fascinations. You will understand
from the circumstances how very necessary
it is that she should be under the guardianship
of one who is thoroughly able to protect
her during the time of her tuition. I
feel I am incurring a great responsibility,
because her father is rather averse to the
N 2

idea of her ever singing in public ; still,
I feel lie will in time become reconciled.
I daresay Lady Charles knows whether
Madame Saroni can take a pupil just now,
and also what terms she expects. Your
answer to this will determine my actions.
I do most sincerely trust that Madame has
room for my protegee, if I may so style
her. I won't apologize for troubling you,
because I know you are never happier than
when you are doing something for others !
and with that pretty compliment I end.

'' With kindest regards to Lady Charles
and love to yourself,

Yours most truly,
'' Edith G. Fleming."

Yenetia had read all that part of the
letter which related to Dorcas with simple
astonishment, and when she had finished
it she laughed again and again hysterically.

I didn't know that it was in a woman

to forgive and love so noble," lie exclaimed
at last. ' Oil, Edith, you splendid
woman, what would you think of me if you
knew all?"

And then Venetia sat a long time in
deep thought. She was very pale, but
there was a look of stern resolution on her
beautiful worn face.

K'o ! " she exclaimed, rising, " I have
not the courage ; it is too late. I must goon,
however terrible it may be ; but  but
that I could ever have been so infatuated ! "

That night, or rather in the early morning
of the next day, when she returned
home from a ball, she found the following
note from Captain Maynard : 

Dear Yenetia,

'' Since I have left you I have come
to the conclusion that you were right in
advising me to go to Carrington, and tell
my uncle all. Anyhow, it seems the only

thing left for me as a man of honour todo.
I know my intelligence will be a
bitter surprise to him. He will probably
be very angry, and there must be a most
painful and disagreeable scene between us.
I may forfeit Carrington, though I hold
such a deprivation would be most unjust.
I will say nothing more of your strictures
on my conduct, than that they have hurt
me until I feel half desperate. That
monstrous contract was not of my making.
I consider I have been most unjustly
treated, but you condemn me in toto. I
did my best  but I will not excuse myself,
or you will say. Qui s excuse s'' accuse. I
have determined I will no longer be a
coward, therefore I start tomorrow for
Carrington, and will there clear my bosom
of its perilous stuff.

'' Ever yours most truly,
H. J. M."

That night Lord Wands worth had been
more exigeant in his wooing, and had
pressed Yenetia to fix the date of their
marriage. Hitherto that event had been
delightful vague, for Yenetia had said, in
answer to his urgent pleadings, it might be
some time before Christmas, in December.
Lord Wandsworth had rather demurred,
but wisely let the subject drop then
though he was quite determined to be
cruising about the Mediterranean in his
yacht, stopping at all those delightful
places on both coasts when December
came.

So this night he had pressed his point
very closely, and Yenetia had at length
given way, and consented to name the
20th of November for the auspicious day;
and Lord Wandsworth had then in his
triumph waxed bolder, and had given his
betrothed a very fervent kiss. Certainly,

under the circumstances, he was quite
authorized, but as yet he had only slightly
brushed Venetians forehead with his moustache
on the day when she had accepted
him. Until that moment the proud girl's
lips had been innocent of a man's kiss. It
was the first personal realization of all
that she had promised, and for the moment
it was exquisitely painful to her  the more
painful that she knew she ought not to
shrink from her affianced husband's caress.
Her proud coldness had always added zest
to his fire, but this shrinking was even to
him more than the occasion warranted.
He was surprised, and looked searchingly
into her white face and troubled eyes,
while she was endeavouring to bring out
an entreaty that he would release her from
her bond.

Words refused to come ; she only looked
the entreaty with her eyes a moment

before site turned away, feeling lie would
never release her.

*' You are a little tired to-night, I
think," he said, with more tenderness in
his voice than she had ever heard.

Yes, I am very tired," she answered.

You must know you have made me
very happy to-night, Yenetia. I trust our
marriage will add as much to your happiness
as it will to mine."

*' I hope so," she faltered.

Then he again kissed her, but with a
greater and more deferential tenderness,
and now Yenetia felt she was bound forever.
She had let the one opportunity
pass, because she was a coward, and could
not tell her lover she had wronged him.
Pari Lane, July 17th.

My teak Edith,

I most thoroughly deserve your
reproach for allowing you to hear through

the Times the news of my engagement to
Lord Wandsworth. Perhaps, though, you
will be somewhat mollified when I tell you
I did begin three separate letters to you,
but finished none. Thank you much
for your good wishes. Did I not know
how kind you are, I might suspect you
guilty of a little satire when you allude so
pointedly to my becoming a great lady !
&c., &c. You know I have always, though
I am your senior, looked up to you with
the greatest belief in your superior virtues.
I am perfectly serious. And I trust indeed
that our old friendship, which has never
really dropped, will bloom out again
into new life when I come into your
county. I may tell you in confidence that
the wedding will be in November, and of
course at Longford. I don't fancy you are
given to such frivolities, but if for once
you will discard your Spartan mode of life

and be one of my eight bridesmaids, I shall
esteem your yielding to my wishes a great
kindness on your part. My mother is happy
in busying herself with my trousseau. I
confess I like wearing pretty things, but
all the smaller details of millinery are infinitely
boring. How delighted I shall be
to leave this dusty, fatiguing London !
The season has been interminable. We
go to the Abbey next week, and on the 1 otho
August to the Anstruthers', at their
charming place in Perthshire. I quite
hunger for a whiff of the fresh mountain
air in the Highlands ; and how charming
to be able to throw conventionality
to the dogs for a short time in one's
existence. Now, having very egotistically
written of myself first, I will turn to the
subject of your letter yesterday. Madame
Saroni is away from town just now, but
my mother will write to her about your

very chsirmmg protegee. On one point, however,
I can set your mind at rest. One of
Madame' s pupils is going home, her chest,
poor girl being too delicate to admit of
her becoming a singer. Therefore I think
there is no doubt about the matter, as far
as regards Madame' s ability to receive
Miss Finch ; of course the rest depends
on what Madame and other 'experts"
may think of her qualifications and likelihood
of success. My mother sends her
kindest regards, and hopes, with myself,
that you will stay at least a night here
when you come up with Miss Finch. Do not
say us nay. I want to see you immensely,
to say nothing of my curiosity about
your protegee. You may anticipate hearing
from Madame in a few days. In haste and
with love, believe me, dear Edith,
Yours affectionately,

Yenetia St. John Stanley.

All ! what hypocrites we women are ! "
said Yenetia, reading over her letter.
*' Edith knows perfectly well Hubert has
told me the whole story, and yet we write
polite letters, and no word is mentioned."

Edith in reading Yenetia's letter was
dreadfully disappointed with it. It was the
letter of a woman newly engaged, and surely
should have betrayed a little pride, a little
touch of womanly triumph and content in
her lover ! There was nothing of the kind.
Lord Wandsworth's name was but once
mentioned all through !

Lord Wandsworth's reputation was not
altogether a happy one ; but he possessed
many good qualities to balance against the
natural failings of a sensuous, voluptuous
nature. He was a munificent man, both
as a patron of art and as a subscriber to
charities. His first passion in life, however,
was the turf, of which he was a great

supporter. His fortune, as regarded the
success of his horses, had been very evenly
balanced. Indeed he had won rather than
lost. He was a generous landlord, as his
tenants during the late disastrous times
could testify. But Edith was astonished
when she heard Venetia had selected him
for her husband. As for position, surely
she did not require more than she already
possessed. But no one could be more
fitted to be the proud mistress of Wandsworth
Castle, if she loved its lord.

Edith smiled a little when she read of
Yenetia's wish for a greater intimacy between
them after the marriage. As to the
proposal of her being a bridesmaid, she
was so amused she really laughed. There
was something so ludicrous in the mere
suggestion. She felt years older than
Venetia in all her bright beauty.

CHAPTER Iii.

Men that hazard all
Do it in hope of fair advantages."

Merchant of Venice Act ii. Sc. 7.

To thine own self be true ;
And it must follow, as the night the day,
Thou canst not then be false to any man."

Hamlet, Act i. Sc. 3.

Caeetngton Park, in Warwickshire, had
long been she lionie of the Maynard.
And it was such a home  such a venerable,
beautiful, and timeworn mansion, that
there was no member of that family who
did not highly prize the birthplace of their
race. As a family, the Maynard were by
no means undistinguished. The baronetcy
dated from James the First, but the present
bearers of the name affected to think that

a rather late honour, and preferred to go
back to the Plantagenet and Tudor times,
when the Sir Hubert, Geoffrey, and
others had been vacant knights in their
generation. The present baronet, Sir
William, had, as his nephew said, almost a
craze about purity of blood. He averred
that it was the sacred duty of every member
of a great family to keep that family intact
from any plebeian admixture. He
often informed his friends that he could
always look back on all the marriages of
his ancestors with the greatest satisfaction,
for not one of them had made a mesalliance.
On the contrary, their unions had connected
them from time to time with some of the most
distinguished and oldest names in England.
True, many of the men had been wild,
extravagant, and dissipated, sowing most
prodigious crops of wild oats ; but they
had always awakened to a sense of duty

when the had selected their wives. They
did not exactly marry for money, but they
certainly never married without. In this
wise and prudent fashion, the fine estates
had never dwindled. No oaks had been
felled to pay the debts of honour of a young
scapegrace ; he was expected to marry a
woman well bred and " weel tottered."

So this charming, stately mansion stood
in much the same condition as when it was
built, nearly three centuries ago. Age had
cast an additional beauty over it, subduing
much of the original richness of colour from
the warm, red bricks by covering them here
and there with many a delicate lichen. It
was of the Tudor style, and very picturesque
and harmonious. It looked the fitting
home for a proud, brave race. Many
vicissitudes had the fine old house passed
through. It still bore some evidences of
having stood a siege in the civil wars 

VOL. II.

honourable scars they were to its possessors.
As yet it had escaped the terrible modern
scourge of fire, though not without many
an alarm, which Lad fortunately been
timely enough to prevent its destruction.
The park which surrounded the mansion
was worthy of it. In parts, where the
deer secluded themselves, it was so thickly
wooded that it still resembled the old, wild,
original forest. It was far from madding
crowds and the turmoil of great cities;
though, to Sir William's disgust, there was
a railway within four miles, in spite of his
strenuous but unavailing opposition to
the scheme. However, the railway had
been made many years, and the baronet
condescended now to use it in his occasional
journeys to London and elsewhere.
Formerly he had always travelled to and
fro in his old yellow chariot, with relays of
splendid horses, swearing unwisely that

nothing should ever induce him to use the
new, detestable, smoky, infernal mode of
travelling. However, once he was beguiled
by a friend into trying a first-class carriage
in an express train, and he was obliged to
admit that, bad as it was, it saved time ;
though to be band-boxed up in such a
fashion, and see nothing but cuttings, was
we'll say insufferable !

On the day succeeding his long interview
with Miss Stanley, Captain Maynard sent
a telegram to Carrington, ordering his mail
phaeton to meet him at the Crawford Station
at 6 p.m., when the express from London
passed through that ancient town. As he
was swiftly carried from London he knew
his communication to his uncle might bethe
means of separating him for ever
from his fair inheritance. He was by no
means insensible to the charms of wealth
and position. Indeed, he felt nature had


never intended him to be a poor man. He
had always had a most generous allowance
from his uncle, and, with this command of
money, had undoubtedly been somewhat
extravagant in his mode of life. He had
never experienced the least approach of
poverty, and from his standpoint of wealth
such a condition looked ugly and bereft of all
the greater joys of life. But if he were disinherited
he would be a poor man ; though,
he would then ;have Dorcas to cheer his
poverty. In the possible sacrifice he was
about to make he felt most men would call
him absurdly Quixotic ; but he himself
was conscious of a certain moral elevation,
perhaps something of that exaltation which
makes a man sacrifice himself to a principle,
and keeps him steadfast to the one ruling
idea. Later on, when he was driving
through the beautiful park in all the stillness
of a July day, towards evening, he

looked around him with some emotion.
As a Maynard he loved this place; from
his earliest days he had been taught to
consider himself its heir, and as its heir
the world had flattered, petted, and meade
much of him. His position and advantages
had always appeared so secure that he had
taken everything much as if it were a
matter of course. This day, as he pulled
the fretting chestnuts into a walk up the
slight hill, where the whole broken and
beautiful facade of the old house was before
him, he realized more than ever how very,
very dear this home of his ancestors was to
him. Soon he was in the noble hall, and
was conscious of looking on every well-remembered
object with a new and almost
pathetic interest.

Sir William was still too much of an
invalid to leave his own suite of rooms
upstairs, and thither Maynard went to see

him. The young man had ever received
so much kindness from his uncle, that he
felt honestly averse to make a communication
which must necessarily be an immense
shock to the old man, as well as dash all
the hopes and schemes of a lifetime to the
ground. Sir William had once been a very
handsome and distinguished-looking man ;
now gout, asthma, and paralysis had made
a wreck of him. His face was still, however,
keen and powerful, and capable of
softening under the influence of a smile.

So you have really come at last,
Hubert ! " he said, looking very earnestly
into his nephew's face.

Yes, at last, sir. I hope you are
better. I thought you would have been
out by this time."

"No, I am rather shaken. Phillpots
advises rest and quiet as usual, but they
won't mend a broken-down constitution'*

he said slowly, for it was some effort to
speak.

Maynard was suddenly aware of something
new about his uncle. That confession
of weakness, that consciousness of
failing in the vital powers, was very
pathetic to the strong young man. To
have arrived at that stage of life,  to have
outlived most of his friends,  to have lost
for years the dearest companion of his
manhood, and now to be waiting lonely
for the last change of all ! Maynard was
smitten with a sudden remorse. How
little had he returned for what he had received
! As heirs and nephews go, he was
not so selfish as the ordinary young men of
the period. Without any demonstration
there had always been a great affection
between his uncle and himself,  something
like that of father and son,  since Colonel
Maynard, Hubert's father, had died. But

perhaps the fortunate young man had
accepted all his uncle's goodness and generosity
too much as a right ; and now he was
aware of something extremely wistful and
kind in the old man's face  something
which had not been there often before this
last illness. Then he remembered he must
wound his faithful friend on the very point
which had ever lain nearest his heart.

Why, Hubert, now I come to look at
you, you don't seem much like a bridegroom
! How is Edith ? "

Very well, sir, thanks."

"And now of course the wedding day
is fixed?" said the baronet, with a certain
anxiety in his voice, while he narrowly
watched his nephew's face, which struck
him as being particularly pale and
worn.

No, it is not."

"Why not, Hubert?"

It will never be fixed ; our  our engagement
is broken off, sir."

"Broken off! Surely I don't understand
you," said the old man, trembling
and speaking hardly above a whisper.


The idea of the marriage is abhorrent
to both of us."

*' Since when, Hubert ? "

To Edith always ; to me since  since
T have loved another woman."

Then Sir William leaned back, and a
piteous moan came from his lips.

Oh, sir, what can I do for you ? "

'* Being  some wine," gasped the poor
shaken man.

Wine revived him, and some time after,
when the faintness had quite passed, he
asked sternly, 

Who is this woman who has come between
you and your honour ? "

She is my superior in everything
except rank in life."

'' What is her rank ? "

She is a yeoman's  a farmer's
daughter."

Indeed ! I thought your taste was
more cultivated."

Dorcas Finch is one of the sweetest,
purest ladies I ever met."

A lady, Hubert?" with some contempt.

Yes, sir, as much a cultivated gentlewoman
as my own mother."

E-eally this young person must be a
paragon. Do you propose to make her
your wife ? "

"It is my greatest desire that she maybe
my wife by-and-by."

'' And how about your solemn engagement
to Edith ? "

No reply.

Really, Hubert, for a man calling himself

a gentleman, your conduct is very
extraordinary."

'' Yes, I know all that," said the other
passionately. " But why was I ever tied
down to such an infernal arrangement ?
Did not bijou choose your wife of your owen
freewill?"

Yes ; but you must remember your
aunt was the daughter of a marquis, and
not a dairy  "

A naughty word fell half-muttered from
Maynard's lips.

Hush, Hubert, if anybody has the right
to swear, I think it is I. But I tell you
candidly, I am too shaken to bear much
excitement. I don't want to get angry ; I
want to discuss this most extraordinary and
painful news calmly."

I beg your pardon, uncle. 1 know only
too well what an ungrateful fellow 1 must
seem to you."

Did you say this young person's name
was Finch ? I seem to have some association
with that name  ah ! now I remember
 "

May I ask what your association is ? "

"It is a very ordinary one. I presume
Miss Finch is beautiful ? "

Very beautiful."

How was it she became what you describe
her a cultivated gentlewoman ? "

She is naturally a lady, and was educated
by an aunt, since dead, who was also
a beautiful and accomplished woman ; she
lived in Paris, and entirely undertook Miss
Finch's education."

History strangely repeats itself ! Did
Miss Finch ever tell you that aunt's most
romantic story ? "

No."

Then I will. Milicent Finch was more
than a beautiful woman ; she was noble.

Lord Anstrutlier once loved her very dearly.
She, though his mother's nearest friend and
protegee, had the good taste and courage
to refuse him, and so saved him from what
would have been a most unwise marriage.
I once saw that lady when she was living
with the dowager Lady Anstruther, and
with all my prejudices of birth, I must confess
I never conversed with a sweeter
woman, or a more perfect gentlewoman."

Then, uncle, you  you would be equally
charmed with Dorcas ; you  "

Hubert, I might be; but  I should consider
your marriage to her the greatest misfortune
that could happen to you. Don't
for a moment hope that I could ever sanction
it."

*' You are too cruel ; you drive me into
the alternative of deceiving you."

If you deceive me, you must suffer the
penalty of your deceit. You know my property

is mine wholly. If you will not renounce
Miss Finch, you cannot be my heir.
Your cousin George shall have the estates
; the title unfortunately must be
yours."

'' It would be most unjust to disinherit
me when I have, all my life, been taught
to consider myself your heir. If you meant
this, why did you insist on my throwing up
my profession ? You have wronged me,
sir. Had I gone to India again, I swear
I would have distinguished myself. I
could have won my bread with my sword.
And now what am I ?  what have I ? I
am simply a man with extravagant habits,
without the power of earning my living,"
he said passionately, reproachfully.

There is much truth in what you say.
I certainly should not be so unjust as to
leave you without the means of subsistence ;
but, unless you return to Edith, your cousin

George must have the bulk of my property,"
said the old man sadly.

"So be it then. Let me have the
Rookery ; I can at least turn farmer''

Stop ; you are going too fast. Am I to
understand this young lady has accepted
you?"

No; she has refused me."

Then I think most highly of her discretion."


But she loves me, and  and I shall
ask her until she consents."

Well, granting Miss Finch is all you
say, how about her people ? I presume
she has a father and mother, and brothers
and sisters."

She has only one brother."

"Is he equal in cultivation to his
sister?"

"No."

Then he is not quite the sort of man

you would like to introduce as jour wife's
brother?"

No reply.

Your silence tells me I am risfht. And
yet if you married the sister, you could
hardly expect her, if she has the natural
feelings of affection, to separate herself
entirely from her people."

I should never ask such a separation."


I presume her father and mother are
of the ordinary yeoman type  a class of
people I have the greatest respect for,
when they keep within their proper
station."

Old Mr. Finch is one of the finest-hearted
and noblest-looking old men I
ever met. There is nothing vulgar or
common about him."

Such a man would consider your attentions
to his daughter simply a disgrace

under existing circumstances. But I assume
he is as ignorant as I was."

"Yes."

"Now, Hubert, let me ask you one
question : don't you owe me something 
some regard for my wishes ? "

Yes, I owe you almost every thing ; but,
uncle, I do not owe you obedience in this
one vital matter."

I hold you do. I say that I, being
able to judge dispassionately, have a
greater insight than yourself as to what
are your truest and best interests. Do
you suppose it costs me nothing to be compelled
to cross your wishes ?  nothing to
put such an alternative to the man I have
ever looked upon as a son since poor little
Willie's death ? Hitherto you have been
all I could desire. Perhaps sometimes I
have wanted more return than you have
been inclined to give ; but I am naturally

VOL. II. p

undemonstrative, and so perhaps we have
not been so near each other as we might
have been."

Uncle, you have always been much too
kind, much too generous to me. I know
how very much T am indebted to you. It
gives me the greatest pain to go directly
against your wishes in this matter. But
do I not owe a duty to myself, and to the
woman who loves me, as well as to you ?
What could possibly compensate me for
her loss ? Am I, a man of thirty, likely
to change? Suppose I bent my will to
yours and gave up Dorcas ? I tell you
solemnly, sir, that nothing should induce
me to marry another woman. George
should still be your heir after my wretched
existence was over, for no child but
the child of a beloved wife shall ever
succeed me. If you compel me to choose
between my love and my inheritance, I

choose now deliberately, and for ever to
take Dorcas Finch and poverty. Now,
sir, you know my fixed, unalterable determination.
Thank you much for listening
so patiently and calmly to me. I only
regret that I am obliged to run counter to
your wishes."

Sir William loved the man who stood
before him,  had always loved him,  but
perhaps never so much as now when he
was deciding on a momentous question in
open defiance to his own wishes.

Looking on the fine keen face, the beautiful
dark, thoughtful eye touched withall
the power of a deep emotion. Sir William
knew his nephew would never change, and
the old man sighed heavily, and for sometime
did not make any reply.

At length, he said, " Hubert, as the
young lady has rejected you, I presume for
the present you intend to take no further
p 2

steps. Will you promise me to leave the
question open, say for another year?"

"I cannot promise, sir."

"You  you intend to make her your
wife in secret ? "

I shall make her my wife the instant
I have won her consent."

Hubert, is this astounding fact  I
mean the rupture of your engagement 
known at Carstone ? "

"No; Edith insisted that you should
know the truth, but her father and brother
and others there are ignorant."

What ! does Edith for your sake allow
it to be thought intact ? "

"Yes."

There are few women so proud as she
is, and yet you mean to say she is so forgiving,
so generous to you? Hubert, I
do not envy your sensations. I do trust
though that you have not been so unmanly

as in any way to have made your infatuation
known  that would be grossly insulting
to Edith, as well as dishonourable."

'' You must think the worst of me as
far as regards my treatment of Edith."

Great Heaven ! that you, a Maynard,
should confess yourself so dishonoured ! "

Your words are very hard, sir ! "

Are they not true ? I tell you, you
have done a noble woman a great wrong.
Are you blind to all your obligations to
her ? How cruelly you are behaving in
not fulfilling your solemn promise ! "

"It is not as you think. Edith never
loved me ; she is glad to be released from
our abominable contract."

Whether she loved you or not is not
the question. I have your letter, in which
you write that ' the engagement is definitely
and voluntarily renewed between
you, and that the marriage would most

likely take place early in the autumn.'
Those are your own words. Now you tell
me that everything is at an end between
you ! By heaven I don't understand such
strange dealing ! It seems the stranger from
you, who have been singularly punctilious
on the point of honour. I have not been
blind or deaf, and I know that in one instance
in your life you resisted a powerful
temptation and kept yourself stainless in a
way that did you the greatest honour. I
can only ask myself with astonishment if
you are the same man, when you so wilfully
and deliberately insult your betrothed
wife ? "

I meant no insult."

No, I suppose you were weak and fell
under the power of beauty and fascination ;
but that does not excuse your fault to
Edith  you have absolutely robbed her of
her inheritance ! Why have you not loved

each other? Where could you find a
nobler woman or one so eminently fitted
to be your wife ? Ah ! how often lately I
have pictured her here, your wife, your
helpmeet, the tender mother of your children,
a gracious, commanding woman
who possesses qualities a hundred times
greater than mere beauty and you are
blind to all her great attractions."

No, she is everything that is excellent,
but she never won me in that way."

Then you are determined to resist me,
to make my few remaining years sadder
than need be, by disappointment," said the
old man with much emotion.

'' Sir, consent to my marriage, I entreat
you. Let my wife minister to you and
cheer you with her affection. Let there
be no occasion for any deception," said
Maynard in accents of most touching
entreaty.

*' Hubert, I cannot consent, for 1 think
my consent would be wrong, and I should
go against every principle of my life. My
heir must marry his equal in rank and
birth. Mixed marriages are fatal."

'' There we must agree to differ, sir, I
am afraid," said Maynard, who, very pale,
held out his hand for his uncle's with
a smile. " Anyhow, thank you for all
your goodness and generosity* in the past.
I must seem awfully ungrateful to
you, but it is not that," he continued
hoarsely.

You will think better of it," said the
old man with pathetic entreaty, as he held
the other's hand fast in his.

Never; I shall never change."

Nor can I," replied the other solemnly.

Presently Maynard said, *' Could you do
something for Harry Fleming, sir ? He
wants to go into the army by examination ;

but, you see, they are so cramped for
money they can hardly afford the expense
of sending him to London to be with
a coach for a time."

I would gladly do something for him,
but it's a very delicate matter. I am
afraid Edith would be hurt ; still, I don't
know; it is for her brother, and not for
herself. I will consider it, Hubert, and
write to Edith."

Thanks. Harry only wants some definite
employment to make him a very nice
young fellow."

Just then a servant came in to say the
dinner would be served in half an hour, if
eight o'clock would suit Captain Maynard.
After a few kind words the two men
separated, and it would be difficult to say
which was the more unhappy.

A few days passed, and Sir William had
learned much about Harry, and no longer

hesitated to write immediately to Edith,
after Maynard's visit to a friend in Oxfordshire.


Carrington Park,
'' July 2bth.

My dear Edith,

'' Hubert, who has been here for a
few days and left yesterday, told me that
your brother Harry is very desirous of
going into the army. It strikes me that
such a step is the wisest proceeding for
him; and really now our Indian affairs
seem so unsatisfactory, as regards the
Afghan question, I am afraid our young
soldiers will soon find employment. So
much the better for them and the worse
for the country !

Under the old purchase system I
should have been only too glad to present
Harry with his commission in a
cavalry regiment ; now, unhappily from

the new regulation, I am prevented from
so doing. But, my dear Edith, I shall be
most seriously hurt if you will not allow
me the gratification of making your
brother's career my future care.

I know since that iniquitous bank
swindle your father's income has been very
restricted, and that it would be almost
impossible for you to give your brother an
allowance sufficient for his station when
he joins his regiment. Now, when he has
passed, I will, if you will allow me, settle
such a sum upon him as will make him
quite independent of his father, and enable
him to hold his own amongst his fellow-officers.
Nothing is so galling, or indeed
so hurtful, to a young man's pride as to
feel himself perpetually at low water as
regards money. Of course I hope he will
be wise and steady, and determined to win
the respect and good-will of his senior

officers, comrades, and ran. Hubert, who
is of course an authority on all these

subjects, suggests Mr. Smith, of

Street, W., as the most suitable man to
coach Harry, as he has a good reputation
for ' cramming,' and most of his pupils
pass satisfactorily. Smith would also
recommend quiet and comfortable rooms
for your brother while he is studying in
London. I think the whole system of
coaching and cramming simply detestable ;
but, I suppose, we must follow the prevailing
fashion, bad as it is.

"And now, my dear Edith, I wish I
could turn to the second subject of my
letter with as much satisfaction as the
first. Hubert has told me some astounding
news. I can say with perfect truth
that seldom, if ever, have I been so much
pained as I was to learn that the engagement
between you was broken off, and that,

to a certain extent, lie had bound himself
to another woman ! You know what all
my hopes have been with regard to yourself
and my heir. In the desolation of
my life I have ever looked forward to your
coming here, as my daughter, to cheer my
last days with your love and sympathy.
Now, through this blind young man's fault
and faithlessness, I have lost you, and my
dearest wishes can never be realized. He
has told me everything. His only excuse
is, that you were equally averse to the
marriage, and that being so, he more easily
fell into temptation, and yielded, almost
from the first day of meeting, to the fascination
of the young lady until he loved
her. I don't profess to understand it.
Angry I am with him; but, you know,
anger cannot change a deeply-planted
affection. I have refused most completely
to sanction the marriage with Miss

Finch. I even put the alternative of disinheritance
before him if he disobeyed
my wishes and commands ; but without a
moment's hesitation he chose the alternative,
and argued his case, and pleaded so
manfully and truthfully that my task of
refusal was hard indeed. And yet I am
right ! Such marriages are the greatest
possible mistakes. Miss Finch herself maybe
everything that is charming in a woman,
but I imagine some of her relatives are
quite the reverse. The idea that any
underbred, vulgar persons should possess
the privilege of entering this sacred home
of my forefathers is most abhorrent to me.
At present the matter lies thus between
us : Hubert has promised to take no further
steps for a year. That he may be out
of the way of temptation, I have proposed
he should travel for that or a longer period ;
m short, I wish him to go round the

world ; he will certainly never have a better
opportunity; and he has agreed to start
immediately after Yenetia Stanley's marriage
in November. Probably had my
unwise, eccentric relative made no such
contract as to the inheritance of her
wealth, we should all have been spared
the pain of broken faith and broken bonds.
To say the least, it is a most vexatious and
annoying truth, that, as things are, her
splendid bequest should be lost to our
families. Hubert is terribly cut up for his
conduct to you ; he is too honourable a
man, and of too noble a disposition, not to
feel acutely how grievously he has sinned
against you. Let me beg that his fault
may draw me to you in greater affection
than ever. I do not ask you to come here
just yet, for the meeting would be painful
to both of us, and I, alas ! am still much of
an invalid.

With kindest remembrances to your
father and brother,

'' I am, dear Edith,

*' Yours most faithfully,
William Washington Maynard.
Pes.  I have placed 300Z. to your brother's
account at Messrs. Drummond's, my
bankers."

CHAPTER Viii.

Kindness, nobler ever than revenge."

As You Like It, Act iv. Sc. 3.

Sweet mercy is nobility's true badge."

Titus Antoninus, Act i. Sc. 1.

It may be imagined that Sir William's
kind letter and most thoughtful generosity
touched Editli not a little. Her brother's
career was now assured ; it only depended
on his own mental exertions and moral
rectitude to be a gentleman amongst gentlemen.
For herself, she could accept
nothing from the kind old man ; but she
felt she had no right to prevent her
brother from benefiting from Sir William's
generosity. And then another thought
comforted her much ; Maynard had been
VOL. II. q

manly and true to Dorcas, even with the
chance of disinheritance. And to know
that this arrangement for Harry had
originated with him, made her feel how
true was his desire to be indeed something
of a brother to her. After all, life was not
so hard, she murmured, while large heavy

tears rolled down her cheeks

Two days previously Edith had received
Madame Saroni's answer, which was favourable
as far as concerned all preliminaries.
Then another week passed during which
Edith corresponded much both with Sir
William and Madame. The former had most
kindly relieved her from all trouble respecting
Harry's arrangements in London. The
old gentleman had perhaps found some
pleasant excitement in directing this young
man's affairs, and he was especially glad to
be able to help his prime favourite Edith asa
set-off to his disappointment. Edith's

letters to her old friend may be imagined;
suffice it to say they cheered and gratified
him. Another event caused Edith
much elation of spirit. Mr. Finger had
paid the 1500/. into the bank, and after
clearing off all those troublesome debts,
which had long been an incubus to her,
she found herself the happy possessor of
some 1100/. Harry was in the seventh
heaven of delight at his happy prospects.
Indeed the young fellow appeared to be
quite changed; he was no longer alternately
listless and sullen, but bright and
prompt in his bearing and movements ;
poor lad, he felt he had at last a chance,
and he determined Sir William should
never regret his kindness to him. So, just
at this period, things at the Hall were in a
much happier state than formerly. The
old squire was extremely gratified by Sir
William's notice of his son, though he did
Q 2

not exactly understand why any such generosity
was necessary. Sometimes, indeed,
he asked very awkward questions about
the marriage, and sometimes imagined
Edith was even then Mrs. Maynard. This
loss of memory was piteous to his daughter
 this gradual decay and approach of
the dark, dark days of noteless old age.

The morning Edith received Sir William's
first letter, she sent a message for Dorcas to
come up to the Hall, feeling that the latter
ought to know that Maynard had bravely
laid the whole story of his visit to Carstone
and its momentous results before his uncle.
She wished she could have shown the letter
itself, but that was impossible, as it contained
allusions which would cause Dorcas
the most exquisite pain.

Is it bad news ? " asked she quickly,
when they were alone in the drawing-room.


It is not very good, dear," said Edith
gently.

** Then Madame Saroni has changed her
mind, and rejected me ? "

'' 'No, no ; it is not that. I have had a
letter from Sir "William Maynard. It is a
very kind letter, but  he altogether refuses
his consent to your marriage with Captain
Maynard."

"Why did Captain Maynard ask his
uncle's consent when  when I have rejected
him ? It was not right," she said
haughtily  passionately  and the eloquent
blood dyed her face scarlet. Edith thought
that if Sir "William could have seen her at
that moment his prejudices would have
melted into admiration.

'' You will not always reject him."

You know I must. I have parted from
him. I want to seo him no more. Why
will he not leave me in peace ? Though I

am not his equal in rank, I  have some
pride. He shall not ruin himself for my
sake."

'' Your love will compel you to listen to
him by-and-by."

' Do not speak of my love ; you know
there can be no question of that."

Dorcas, listen. He has told his uncle
everything, and he has chosen you in preference
to his inheritance. Surely you are
proud of having won such an unselfish
love."

' But I have refused him. Sir William
must be told. There must be no such
sacrifice. Oh, why did I ever meet him, if
this is to be the end ! "

And she clasped her hands in that
tragic way of hers which came unconsciously
when she was much moved.

'' If I was blind and infatuated a few
weeks ago, I know perfectly well now what

I ought to do; since he left me, I have
learned where my duty lies. Oh, Edith,
keep me in it. Hold out no possible hope
of  of that kind for the future. And you
will  you must write at once to Sir William
Maynard, and tell him I have parted forever
from his nephew."

*' I should be sorry to think that true,
Dorcas. I am perplexed myself ; but,
dear one, your lover's happiness must be
consulted as well as his uncle's wishes.
We must trust that Sir William will relent,"
and then Edith kissed her affectionately,
and gently told the story of the
letter.

*' So you see, dear, that the matter is to
rest as it is for more than a year. But you
must also see that Captain Maynard regards
you as his betrothed wife."

No, no ; there is nothing  no tie between
us."

Dear Dorcas, lie considers himself
bound to sou."

*' But lie is not ; he is free to woo or
wed any other woman."

You wrong him if you think he will
ever change. Treasure his love ; it must
be loyal now he has put it to so severe a
test."

*' Treasure his love ? Don't you know
how I would, if T might ?"

'* But you may now; his own act of confiding
in his uncle, and honestly stating his
determination to act in defiance of Lis
uncle's commands, certainly changes the
situation."

** But I cannot accept the sacrifice. I
know all Sir William says in his letter.
Don't think I blame him ; he knows how
very unsuitable such a marriage would befor
his nephew in  in some ways, though
I feel I could make Captain Maynard happier

than any other woman," she said
proudly, and blushing deeply ; *' there are
other considerations, which I need not
mention, but which you perfectly understand.
It was right he should tell his
uncle everything; but it was ungenerous
to let Sir William infer that I  that my rejection
was not absolute. Edith, you will
write to-night, won't you, and tell Sir
William my own Avoids ? There must be
no further misapprehension. I will make
no promises for the future, lest I should be
tempted to break them ; but as far as a
woman can resist a man whom she loves, I
will resist Captain Maynard's pleadings fora
private marriage. At any rate, I am free
for a year, and I have the prospect of congenial
work ; and you  you will help me,
won't you ? I know I am right in rejecting
him. Suppose I yielded to his wishes, and
suppose for my sake he lost all ; what love

could hold out against such a terrible
sacrifice ? Poverty for him would be impossible.
It would be absolute misery. The
very thought of such a marriage is madness.
Other men and women have been
obliged to part, and have survived their
parting; and so must we," she said with a
smile, though there was a little quiver of
that beautiful lower lip of hers.

'' Perhaps you are right, but I am by no
means sure. Anyhow, the matter is to be
quiescent for the present. Much may
occur during the time of probation."

Yes. I mean, if Madame Saroni will accept
me, to work harder than I have ever
done before, and then I may succeed. Oh !
how delightful that would be. And now
let this subject drop between us, dear
Edith. I wonder if I shall ever be able to
repay you."

Edith had declined Lady Charles Stanley's

invitation, as she and Dorcas were
merely going to town for the day ; and
Edith, moreover, by no means wished to
meet the lively and critical Venetia at present.
A journey to London was somewhat
of an event to these quiet country people,
and they each felt that this was no
ordinary one, when so much depended on
the interview with Madame Saroni. Early
in the morning Edith was at the gate leading
to the farm, and there a minute afterwards
was Dorcas, looking too fresh and
exquisite a flower to bloom in hot, dusty
London. Walter, the garden-boy, had long-been
despatched to Exton, to bring back
the pony and chaise, as Edith had determined
to hire a fly to bring them home at
night. The drive in the early morning was
by no means sad. Dorcas was in a satirical
mood, and made Edith laugh occasionally
as they drove along.

Shall we go ' second ' ? " said Edith
ever economical  as she was going to take
their tickets to London by the express
through from Eastminster.

Why do you ask me ? My dear Edith,
sou ought to know I am second class.
Does not Mrs. Anstey always say so ? "

Nonsense, Dorcas ! We'll go ' first ' if
you wish."

'pray forgive my jesting. Two such
nice-looking ladies might go ' third,' and so
make the third class most distinguished."

You must keep your veil down, you
know, Dorcas," said Edith rather dubiously.


*' Not in the carriage ; I stipulate for
that. I can't be suffocated for the sake of
the proprieties."

Edith's economy saved them from what
might have been a very painful meeting ;
for when they were waiting at the B our ton

junction (where trains from all directions
were rushing in) for the express to which
their carriage would be attached, Dorcas,
who was looking out on the platform, and
watching the hurrying crowd of passengers,
suddenly saw Captain Maynard close to
the door of the carriage. Our travellers
were at the opposite end, or he must have
observed them. As it was, he stood half-turned
away, chatting with a lively young
fellow, who was smoking. The well-known
voice roused Edith from a reverie into
which she had fallen. A momentary glance
sufficed for Dorcas, who, meeting an expressive
look from Edith, resolutely turned
away, and stared at the interesting and
novel spectacle of an empty train near by.
The unconscious Maynard was answering
his lively friend in monosyllables. Edith
in her far corner felt perfectly safe, and
watched her quondam suitor with a strange

interest. All ! low changed he was.
Where was now his proud, bright manhood
? The haggard, worn man bore indeed
sufficient evidence of his great trouble.
But no trouble, no suffering, could ever
lessen the nobility of his expression, or the
dignity of his mien, thought she. She saw,
while he was talking, that his thoughts
were far away, probably with Dorcas.
What would he say if he knew Dorcas was
within a few feet of him ? Then she
glanced at her charge, and was alarmed by
her pallor, and the strained look of anxiety
in her averted eyes ; her satire and gaiety
were gone. Edith was touched, as only
the noble can be touched, by the suffering
of these two. Yes, they had done wrong,
but surely they were heavily punished.

There were four other people in the carriage
besides themselves, so all conversation
was precluded until the train started.

The were both veiled, and Dorcas thickly ;
but if Maynard turned his head, and looked
in, he would surely recognize that graceful
well-known form and averted face.

At length the time was up ; he shook
hands with his friend, and got into the
next carriage, and the train went off,
to the great contentment and relief of
two of its passengers.

'' That gentleman who stood just by the
door was Captain Maynard, Sir William
Maynard's heir," said one of their companions
to a lady, apparently his wife.

'' Was it ? I am sure he looks dreadfully
ill, poor fellow."

'' Ay, he don't look very jolly, though
no man has greater cause to be so."

And then followed a long history of the
Maynard family, the proposed marriage,
and many other details which made th
conversation sufficiently disagreeable to

Edith. But at length the gossip became
so absurd that Dorcas, who felt a little
hysterical, was obliged to laugh, after a
merry glance at Edith, who was the picture
of dignified displeasure.

However, in time the good man had
exhausted all his stock of ridiculous
stories, and turned to subjects of no
interest to our travellers, while the train
sped on its way with its usual velocity.
As they neared London, Edith said a few
words in a low tone to Dorcas.

This meeting with Maynard was certainly
very unfortunate ; she saw Dorcas
was much disturbed, and that her thoughts
were again dwelling on the unhappy,
eventful past.

When the train at length drew up at the
long platform, they allowed their fellow-travellers
to precede them, and waited
until they thought Maynard was gone.

Then descending, they made their way
to the cabs, and just when Edith was
congratulating herself that they were safe,
there he was straight before them, followed
by a porter with his luggage. In a
moment he recognized those two veiled
ladies. Raising his hat, he bowed in
silence and passed on, ashy white.

Not until they were in a four-wheeler
did Edith speak.

'' How unfortunate we should meet
him ! It is impossible for you to go to
Madame Saroni's like this, Dorcas. Why,
child, how you are trembling ! Some
lunch will set you all right ; we will
stop at a confectioner's and the cab can
wait."

*' Edith, how terribly ill and unhappy
he looked, and I  am the cause of it all."

Come, dear, this sort of thing won't
do, you know. You won't have any voice

VOL. II. B

if you get hysterical. Come, surely you
won't disappoint me, Dorcas," said poor
Edith, shocked and almost in despair
when she saw the intense sadness of the
other's face.

'' I will do my best for your sake, but I
am afraid I shall completely break down.
Oh, that I should be so stupid now ! The
trial will be a failure altogether. I feel as
if I could not breathe, much less sing."

Nonsense, my dear, you must sing and
be successful."

About three quarters of an hour later
they were standing at the door of a large
roomy house, in one of those great squares
which many years ago had been the centres
of fashionable society.

Now, Dorcas, courage ! " said Edith,
with a smile, to her companion, who answered
by a fervent pressure of her hand.

Presently they were in a capacious

drawing-room, pleasant, and home-like,
and deliciously sweet with fresh flowers.
Almost immediately a stout, fair, handsome,
and most motherly-looking lady
entered; and her kind looks and genial
welcome at once reassured the pale
Dorcas, who had removed lor veil and
stood before Madame Saroni in all her
delicate beauty.

*' Miss Fleming, I am very glad to meet
you personally, at last, after our correspondence
; and this young lady, then, is
Miss Finch, and, as I hope, my future pupil,"
said Madame, perusing the lovely face
opposite to her with surprised interest.

I am afraid," said she, still holding
Dorcas's hand, " that the journey has
rather tired you, and the idea of the
coming ordeal is very formidable. Isn't it,
my dear young lady ? "  smiling so pleasantly,
that Dorcas was obliged to smile
li 2

too. " Now I daresay you remember
wliafc a great actor once said to a young
actress, who was dreading her debut :
Don't mind them, the audience, any more
than if they were so many rows of cabbages.'
So you must sing presently just
as you would at home. Don't think about
any disagreeable people listening to you.
You have brought some of your songs, I
see ; that is well. Would you not feel
more at ease without your bonnet ? Ah, I
thought so. I am very sorry I must
hurry you a little, for another engagement
claims me unexpectedly, and I must
leave you rather earlier than I wished.
Now, shall we go to the music-room?"
said the genial lady, with the air of one
to whom this trial, so momentous to poor
Dorcas, was but an every-day occurrence.
Madame merely opened a door, and they
passed into a fine room, almost destitute

of furniture, but where a grand piano
looked in its proper place.

'* Do you play your accompaniments
yourself? " asked Madame with a smile.

Yes."

Then you will like the piano."

And Dorcas, with a beating heart, sat
down and prepared for the grand start,
knowing it was a mere pretence for her to
try. Sing ! how could she sing, when she
could neither see a note of the music before
her, nor remember the accompaniment?
All she saw and remembered were Maynard's
dark, sad, reproachful eyes, and set
stern face, which somehow were between
her and the music. If possible, Edith
was scarcely less nervous, though from a
different cause. To her it seemed strange
that Dorcas, who was usually so perfectly
at home in playing and singing, should
now strike chords with so uncertain a

touch, that a listener would infer she was a
mere pretender. Edith observed the 
door open : looking a little more
round she saw three or four gentlemen
standing where they could hear the young
singer perfectly without being seen by her.
One of them, catching Edith's eye, smiled
comically, while he put his finger to his
lip. At that moment the sweet, pure voice
rose uncertain and tremulous. It appeared
to Edith that she had never heard Dorcas
sing so badly, as far as correctness went.
The time was wrong, indeed all seemed
wrong. Evidently Dorcas knew it, for she
sprang up from the piano.

'madame, I cannot sing now. I  "
then she burst into a passion of sobs.
At this juncture the door leading into the
drawing-room was discreetly closed.

My dear young lady, you are too
anxious. Pray don't be discouraged.

feel convinced you can sing; I will play
for you presently, when you are better'*

Edith had instantly gone to the distressed
girl, who had broken down, she
knew, through that unfortunate meeting
with Maynard.

'' You will be better presently, my darling,"
she whispered. '' Remember all
your hopes, dear, for the future; be
brave."

At this moment Madame returned with
a glass of sherry.

'' Here, Miss Finch, let me prescribe
for you. You are too anxious, my dear
young lady. You have forgotten about
the rows of cabbages."

Dorcas made an effort, and soon regained
her calmness, while Madame chatted
on about a number of things to her and
to Edith, until the wise lady knew Dorcas
was sufficiently recovered to recommence.

But this time Madame seated herself at
the piano, and, putting on her spectacles,
began to play the accompaniment of another
song. With a true artist's perception she
so played that she encouraged the singer,
and the result was that Dorcas at length
gave freedom to her beautiful, passionate,
delicate voice, and forgot she was on trial.
Madame Saroni took her through the same
song again, and at the end she said, looking
up over her spectacles with very well-satisfied
eyes, 

You don't feel as if you couldn't sing
now, eh, my dear ? "

No," she replied, smiling and blushing.

"Well, now, sing something by yourself."


Presently Dorcas broke out into a pretty
French chanson, and Madame was again
by Edith.

' Your friend is wonderfully fascinating

and beautiful, but very delicate, I fear,
Miss Fleming."

Do you think, then, she  ? "

/'It depends altogether on her health.
Her voice is almost perfect in expression
and tenderness, but weak."

It will get stronger. She is not well
now. You will not reject her?" pleaded
Edith.

If I reject her, it will be for her own
sake. But pray understand that I would
far more willingly keep such an interesting
and lovely girl as my pupil."

'' Then do keep her."

Just then the song was finished, and,
warmly applauding, the audience from
the next room came in, and were duly
introduced.

*' Now, mademoiselle," said a very stout,
dark gentleman, "I should Hke you to sing
to my accompaniment, and I will choose

the song. I want to hear a little more of
the compass of your voice. You know
this duet ? if so, we will sing it."

Dorcas realized more than ever how
much depended on this hour ; but the ice
was broken, and at length she did herself
justice. Her accompanied did not spare
her ; he took her up and down the piano
in grand style after the duet was over,
and then proposed a still more beautiful
and difficult duet from a favourite opera.
Her pure Italian, and her fine rendering
of the impassioned music, surprised
and delighted the gifted signor ; he muttered
an enthusiastic aside to Madame
Saroni; and before the last notes died
away, Dorcas knew the contest was won.
As she listened to the kind speeches of
approval and encouragement, it seemed to
her that she had heard them all before
somewhere in a dream. The preliminaries

were soon settled, and Dorcas was taken to
see the room which would be hers when
she came up on the 2nd of September.

Madame was charmed, but still rather
doubtful on the score of her new pupil's
health, though her husband and the other
gentlemen pooh-poohed her anxiety. She
insisted, however, that Dorcas should have
a month at some bracing watering-place
before she entered on her work.

'' Oh, Dorcas, how delighted I am ! " said
Edith, when they were once more in the
square ; " but, you know, I feared at first
you would never shake off your nervousness.
However, it's all right now. Where
shall we go ? It's only five o'clock, and
our train does not leave until seven.
Would you like to see the crush at Hyde
Park Corner? We both look very presentable,
though it is not very likely that
we shall meet any one we know."

A cab took them rapidly to near the
entrance, and tliej passed in amongst the
gay crowd, all making for the long promenade
by the railings. Once there they
looked with interest on the fashionable
and unfashionable multitude.

This reminds me a little of the Bois de
Bologna on Sunday," observed Dorcas.

Ah, yes," said Edith absently, as she
thought with a quick realization, that had
the Fates been propitious she would have
been one with those beautifully-dressed
ladies, who kept slowly passing in their
perfectly-appointed carriages.

Did she really care for the possession of
mere wealth, mere position ? she asked herself
with scorn, when she found herself
almost envying the picture of soft, refined
luxury before her. But was not wealth
power ? and was not power the most delightful
possession to a proud, ambitious

woman, who was conscious lie might have
shone in the greater freedom of the life
originally destined for her ?

For the moment Dorcas was forgotten.

Suddenly she remembered that by-and-by
her silent, preoccupied companion would
be, must be, one of the loveliest and most
fascinating women in the most exclusive
society in the world.

That she would marry Hubert Maynard,
and that Sir William would forgive them,
she felt assured. But of that assurance of
his forgiveness she felt she had no authority
to tell Dorcas. The kind baronet had
done everything he could to prevent the
marriage, and had therefore saved his
dignity if his love for his nephew should
compel him to forgive him in the future.

They were standing in the thick crowd
by the railings. Presently there was a
little stir, and the fair Princess with her

daughters drove rapidly by amid the
homage of the admiring, respectful multitude.
Other carriages passed and repassed,
and our country visitors scanned
their occupants, but saw no face they
recognized. At length some one said just
by them, 

"Here's Miss Stanley at last."

'' Look, Dorcas, it is Yenetia," said
Edith quickly, as the very plain dark-blue
landau with its well-matched horses
approached.

Yes, it was the beautiful Yenetia, who
looked a little pale and languid, as, sitting
by her mother's side, she made an almost
royal progress.

A little before approaching our friends
the carriage stopped, and a tall man left the
crowd and stood for some minutes chatting
to these distinguished ladies. Yenetia's
proud dark eyes seemed to awake from

their languor ; a smile crept to her lips,
and she looked very charming.

It is Lord Wandsworth who is talking
to her. Is she not beautiful, Dorcas ? "
whispered Edith.

She is indeed lovely," replied Dorcas,
much interested.

Presently the carriage passed on, and
Miss Stanley did not observe the two ladies
who were so rapturously admiring her.
Had she known that Edith  the Edith
whom she so loved and reverenced  was
close to her, she would have almost sprung
from the carriage and embraced her.

Fortunately she was all unconscious,
and her dignity was not imperilled by any
outburst of enthusiasm.

Compared with Yenetia our friends
thought nearly all the people who followed
remarkably common-place, if not vulgar.
Presently they walked slowly on by the

Serpentine, and, avoiding the crowd, strolled
under the trees in the heated air. What a
Vanity Fair it all was ! though pleasant
enough to those who were young and free
from harassing cares. They found a seat
at last on which they could rest, and
chatted about all the brilliant prospects
which the future seemed to hold forth,
until it was time to leave the gay scene
and seek the station for their return home,
where they arrived late, but in a very
happy and thankful state of mind.

CHAPTER IX.

Let me embrace these sour adversities,
For wise men say it is the wisest course."

Henry VI., Act iii. Sc. 1.

A woman's thought runs before her actions."
As You Like It, Act iv. Sc. 1 .

Woe, that too late repents."

King Lear, Act i. Sc. 4.

Reuben, with all this manly love and compassion
for Dorcas, felt a great delicacy
and reluctance about meeting her after he
had witnessed her passionate farewell to
Captain Maynard. Now that she appeared
to have passed for ever from him  now
there was no hope for him in the future
he realized the anguish which accompanies
the hopeless attachment of a strong,
brave man. Under these circumstances he

VOL. II. s

abruptly left home for a week or two,
leaving his mother and sister in possession.
Indeed his home had suddenly grown distasteful
as well as other things in which he
used to delight. Until he had lost her, he
had never so completely realized that Dorcas
had been the grand mainspring of all the
desires and actions of his life. He felt that
time would dull the keenness of this disappointment,
but that he should never take the
same delight in his farm, in his house, or
feel again the proud ambition to rise to a
higher position, and to be her equal in
education and culture. Books were the
friends that never changed, he thought
bitterly. He had a presentiment that she
might even yet need a strong, true friend ;
that friend should be himself. His mother
was sorely grieved at the turn events had
taken.

Edith's strong championship had done

much to suppress the scandal which still
hovered over Dorcas ; her detractors blew
the flame and kept it faintly alive.

For a fortnight Eeuben was away, hugging
his sorrows to his bosom, after which
he returned home, a stern, silent man, and
fell back into his usual orderly methodical
habits. The sense of duty made him diligent,
though he had no relish for his work,
performing it in a half-hearted, perfunctory
way. His men found him harder
and stricter than ever. One happening
to rebel and be insolent was summarily
discharged on the spot.

The weather had again improved and
the wheat looked promising, but Eeuben
walked moodily over his fields, feeling that
the life which had fallen to him was intolerable.
It was too easy, too pastoral now.
He wanted action to stir his blood and fill
his brain with enterprise, and difficulties
s 2

to overcome greater than those which
arose in this every-day, sleepy, rural life.

When his mother and sisters had returned
to their homes, and he was again
alone, he rode over to the farm one evening.
It happened to be the day when
Dorcas had gone to London with Edith.
He was both relieved and disappointed to
find her absent, and was not a little
astonished at the yeoman's good news of
his daughter's prospects of success.

Well, Miss Edith has managed it all,
so it can't be wrong, Reuben."

** Wrong ! why, it's the very best thing
that can happen to Dorcas. With her
beautiful voice she's sure to be successful,
and there's a position just suited to
her."

Then there was a long pause ; the yeoman
continued meditatively smoking his
long *' churchwarden," and Reuben had

another to keep him company. Mrs. Finch
lead gone down to the village to execute
some little commissions in the cool of the
evening.

Reuben, you have heard what they say
about Dorcas ? "

I have heard some scandalous lies, sir.

Ay, they are lies  cursed lies ; but, oh,
Reuben, they have a foundation of truth in
them," he whispered.

Yes, T know, sir ; but that is all over
now."

'' Eh, you think so ? You'll still be her
friend, Reuben ? " he said hardly above a
whisper. "lam feared she'll want your
kindness more than ever now, for, oh,
Reuben, she loves that villain."

If possible I am more her friend than
ever. I'll watch over her as if she were
my sister," he said, grasping the old man's
hand.

Ay, 'tis like you  'tis like you. But,
Reuben, do you think she'll be safe in
London ? Won't lie meet ber and tempt
ber again ?  rather than that I'd see ber
dead."

He is not a villain, Mr. Fincb. He
loves ber honourably. I am sure be will
never tempt ber to wrong. Besides,
really, sir, you should not bave so poor an
opinion of Dorcas."

I bad the biggest opinion of ber,
Reuben, two months agone. Eb, but bow
I liked that man ! With all bis pleasant
ways and noble looks, and always talking
to me as respectful as if I was the Duke,
and all the time be was carrying on with
Dorcas so deceitful behind my back ! I
am feared, if I meet bim, I'll do bim a
mischief yet."

Don't be too bard on bim, sir ; you
may depend upon it he's unhappy enough."

'sand so he ought to be; so he ought to be.
My lad, ye'll understand what a bitter blow
all this has been to me. I felt like to lose
my reason. I think I should ha' pretty
nigh killed him if I had seen him then ! ' '

'' You must thank God you did not meet
him, Mr. Finch. After all, it is not a
deadly sin for a gentleman to fall in love
with a beautiful girl, and he was always
a gentleman with Dorcas. Of course I
know, being an engaged man, he ought
never to have taken any notice of her, but
people don't always do what they ought,
especially men."

Why, Eeuben, you seem to take his
part."

I think you judge him harder than he
deserves."

No, I don't; I couldn't judge him hard
enough, for I am feared she will never forget
him."

''No, I don't suppose she ever will.
Dorcas is not a woman likely to change."

Reuben, did you ever hear of any ladylike
Miss Edith ?  but there, I can't talk
about her, or I'll ha' the tears on my
cheeks. God bless her. God bless her in
all her ways."

'* Amen," softly said Reuben, who in
the dusk had the tears on his cheeks.

But I have a grand bit of good news
about Mr. Harry. Sir William Maynard
is going to put him in the army, pay all
his expenses like a prince, and has promised
to settle something handsome on
him besides."

I am very glad to hear it. I am sure
Miss Edith must be delighted."

Ay, ye may be sure of that. It takes
a wonderful weight off her heart, I'll
warrant. The young gentleman was just
getting idle and unsettled, though he's a

nice lad enough ; but he can't bold a candle
to Miss Edith. Ay, she ought to ha' been
the squire ! She'd ha' made the old
family hold up its head again. But here's
Jim just crazy and utterly unreasonable,
saying he'll list and join as a trooper in
Mr. Harris regiment ! Now I can't stand
that, you know, Reuben. "

Why, sir, it strikes me that it's the
very wisest thing he could do."

'' What ! for my only son as ought to
succeed me here in the nature of things
to  to be comrade, and  and  "

It would be the making of him, sir."
Dash it, Reuben, how can ye say so ? "
** It's just what Jim wants, training and
discipline ; he's got plenty of pluck. And
if he was once out of the disreputable
set of blackguards that have got hold of
him, he'd set to work, and be a smart
soldier. I say, sir, let him go. I'll be

only too glad to do your marketing and
other things for you."

But, Reuben, it goes clean against my
judgment that he should go as a common
trooper."

If he is steady and persevering, and if
there is a war, there is no reason why he
shouldn't get a commission in time  but
of course that all absolutely depends on
his own conduct in the regiment."

And so they talked on, the yeoman quite
excited, though not unwilling to see the
truth of what Reuben said.

Harry was not going to his tutor's in
Kent until the middle of September, and
as Edith felt she might righteously afford
to spend some of her riches in a little
pleasure and holiday-making, she arranged
to go to Scarborough for a month,
taking a furnished house there while she
stayed. She further invited Dorcas to join

them as her guest, which invitation the
latter gladly accepted for three weeks of
the time. The last week of August she
must spend at home. The old squire quite
woke up with the prospect of a change in
the long monotony of his existence, and
the three servants of that modest household
were likewise very happy in their
anticipations. John, however, with his
superior knowledge of the world, took the
command of everything, and preached to
and scolded the unhappy maids until they
were in a state of rebellion, and wished
there was to be no holiday at all. But it is
only fair to say that, if he was obstinate
and dogmatical, he nearly worked himself
to death before the eventful morning of
their departure. Edith might be sometimes
vexed and annoyed at the old man's
stubbornness, but certainly such sterling,
honest, faithful Johns were rare. Nothing

had lie forgotten which concerned this
master's or mistress's comfort. In the
presence of strangers lie amused them all
by the spice of formality he threw into his
discourse when addressing them. Harry
had proposed travelling second class, but
Edith would not hear of it; they would all
go together, and a very happy and merry
quarter they were. Those three weeks
to Dorcas were simply delightful, and the
effect on her health of the sea air marvellous
; it was just the filHp she had required.
The same may be said of all. The squire
liked to be drawn in his chair to the
saloon-grounds, and to listen to the band
while basking in the sun, Edith with a
book near him, and John in attendance
not far off. Harry spent most of his
time either in the sea or on it,  fishing.
Edith and Dorcas also delighted in boating,
and made the most of their opportunities.

In the afternoon, when the squire was
having his siesta, they would go for a long
sail, returning to their six o'clock dinner ;
after which they would all adjourn again
to the saloon-grounds, and the squire
would enjoy the music and his cigar at
the same time. Harry was not a little
proud to be the escort of such a destine
gushed young beauty as Dorcas. How
many people longed for an introduction to
that agreeable party ! But Edith held
herself coldly unapproachable; she wished
to make no new acquaintances. In after-years
how often she remembered that
happy month, and how thankful she was
that she had been able to give her father
and brother one last enjoyment together,
before they were separated for ever.
Three weeks soon passed, and Dorcas was
obliged to leave them, regretful though both
were to part. The night before her journey

she was in Edith's room; the window was
open, and a long line of moonlight lay
upon the sea, which was gently breaking
on the rocks and shore. They had been
talking of very near and personal subjects,
and were now silent, each busied with her
own thoughts, and very loth to separate ;
for now between these two there was a
love too deep for words. Her father
and mother were very happy to receive
Dorcas at home again, whose bright looks
and perfect health made her like her
former self. This last week passed all
too fast with its numerous occupations.
Mrs. Finch, having but lately learned the
luxury of knowing that she was necessary
to her daughter, was very heavy-hearted at
the thought of their separation ; but on the
other hand, those who knew better than she
did, said it was the best thing Dorcas could
do ; "so she must not complain," she said.

But the good woman would now and then
shed a few quiet tears when Dorcas could
not see her. With Hephzibah it was the
same ; the light of the whole house was
going away. One day she brought to
Dorcas her most precious possession. It
was a little silver scent-box, which years
before had been given to Hephzibah's
grandmother by a grateful mistress ; and
now the faithful woman brought this, her
best gift, to Dorcas, who was touched to
tears. Often when she was a child had
Hephzibah shown her this same little box,
as a great treat, when she had been
wonderfully good.

I'll keep it for ever, Hephzibah," she
cried, when she saw her refusal to accept
it hurt the old servant.

The last night came, her pretty room
looked dismantled, and there W'cre all the
tokens of a departure lying about. She

was not surprised when her father came
in, for she expected some last words of
admonition and advice from him. Alas !
she had proved that such words were very
necessary to her.

I can't believe as ye're really going
tomorrow, my dear. But I suppose ye
must, and that it is all for the best.
Dorcas, my child, I want you to give
me your solemn promise that ye will have
nothing whatever to do with Captain
Maynard again. I want you to promise
that ye'll neither write to him, nor
speak to him, nor meet him. I can't
be happy about you, unless ye' 11 promise
that."

Father, how can I promise ? "

*' But you must," he said sternly.

I cannot; I dare not; I might be led to
break my promise, and how terrible that
would be ! "

You must give me your solemn word,
and then ye dare not break it."

"Do not force me to give it. Father,
I told you I loved him. It is the same
now ; it will always be the same as long
as I live."

I won't hear that. I hope you'll
never see the scoundrel again. But it's
just possible he may try to tempt you into
evil again. If he dares to, I'll punish him
in a way ye won't like."

Don't threaten him or me. It's not at
all probable that I shall meet him at
present ; if I do, I will do my best to avoid
him. Won't that satisfy you, father ? "

'' No ; promise ye'll never have anything
more to do with him."

I cannot promise that, even if I make
you angry. Can you not trust me ? "

Have you deserved trust in the past ? '*
said he sternly.

VOL. II. T

No, but I have learned a bitter lesson
that I can never forget."

Dorcas, rather than see you disgraced
and shamed, I'd see you dead a thousand
times! "

Father, do you know me so little as to
suppose me capable of disgrace ? You
wrong both Captain Maynard and myself
by such a thought," she said reproachfully.

'' I must have your promise," he said,
holding her hands so tightly that he hurt
her.

For some time she hesitated, but there
was something in the sternness and gloom
of her father's face that compelled her to
acquiesce.

"I do promise, as far as I am able," she
said faintly, distressed and trembling.

Then he kissed her solemnly, and left
her without another word.

It is the eve of Venetia's wedding-day,
and Longford Abbey is filled with
guests. The marriage-service is to take
place in the beautiful private chapel, where,
lang syne, the monks chanted their
orisons. There would be no procession of
carriages ; the bride would simply walk
with her father and attendant bridesmaids
through a cloister into the chapel.

Venetia's wedding - day has already
dawned, and she is at length quite alone,
and looking thoughtfully into her fire.
She has exchanged a courteous and tender
good-night with the bridegroom half an
hour previously ; then her mother had come
for a few last words ; and now Yenetia has
locked herself in, to be alone during these
few remaining hours of her maiden life.

It is dull, dreary November weather.
Not even the well-fitting shutters and the
thick draperies can altogether exclude
T 2

the mournful gusts of wind and rain which
keep sweeping around and over the
venerable abbey.

Venetia is in the room she has occupied
since she left the schoolroom, nearly eight
years ago, and now she realizes with something
like a pang that she and her old
life are parted for ever.

Presently she goes into the next room,
and returns with a desk, which she puts
on the table, and slowly unlocks. And
now she is very pale, but she does not
flinch. She takes out a number of photographs
; they all represent the same person.
The first presents a merry, round-faced,
Eton boy ; another of the same boy
in the Gala Fourth of June '' Dreadnought "
costume ; another portraying him in white
tie and faultless coat, and all the dignity
of the sixth form upon him  a grave,
handsome youth ; another in the uniform

of a lieutenant of Hussars  the latest of all,
the present living man, with the thoughtful
brown eyes, and a mouth of which even
the heavy dark moustache cannot conceal
the sweetness.

Venetia, extremely pale, looked at them
all in their regular order ; but at the
last, that one of his mature manhood, she
looked the longest.

One" boomed out from the turret-clock,
and the chimes began to play.

Then all the photographs were put
together. The desk apparently held other
memorials, a few letters,  indeed more thana
few  the compartment was full of them.
These she merely glanced at ; possibly she
knew them by heart.

There were also some dried-up specimens
of flowers, which almost fell to
pieces as she touched them. And then th(>
desk was empty. Again she looked at the

latest photograph of the series, and now
the first expression of weakness touched
her; her hp quivered slightly, and she
drew a long breath, which seemed not
unlike a repressed sob.

She stirred the bright, glowing fire into
still fiercer flame, and slowly dropped the
photographs, letters, and flowers into its
very heart, until nothing remained but a
heap of blackened ashes. Not a word had
she said during that resolute but trying
sacrifice of old mementos, and now she
locked up the empty desk and restored it
to its place.

And then Venetia Stanley knelt for
some time by the simple white bed of her
girlhood.

Early was the household astir, while the
beautiful, pale bride was sleeping. At tena
wintry sun gleamed out from the dull,
leaden sky ; but the weather in this case

could make but little difference to the
effect of the ceremony, as no one would
have to stand shivering in a cold, damp
church, or wade through pools of water
to the church-doors.

The service was not to begin until half
past twelve. Lord Wandsworth had desired
that it should be so, and all the
preliminaries had been duly arranged.
The benevolent, scholarly Bishop of Eastminster
was to join the hands of the
aristocratic couple.

At eleven o'clock Sir William Maynard
and his nephew left Carrington in the old
chariot with its fine team of bays for the
abbey, arriving there about twelve.

In the truce between uncle and nephew,
they were very friendly in a guarded sort
of fashion. There was so much real feeling
and kindness between them, that
each was determined there should be no

quarrel on that one sore subject of their
difference.

Some time before twelve the silvery-toned
bell began to ring, and people who
were privileged with tickets of admission
were pressing into the dim chapel  dim
from the fine stained glass which glowed
with forms of heavenly beauty from each
window. The great candles on the altar
were lighted, and threw into startling
relief a magnificent painting of the Crucifixion.
Elsewhere candles were burning,
for the light was meagre on this dull
November day. The air was heavy with
the perfume of the exotics which met
the eye in every direction, and almost
overpowered the slight suspicion of incense
which lingered in the chapel, Anglican
though it was.

At a quarter past twelve the guests came
in and quietly took their places, while the

full, rich organ sent exquisite waves of
sound in some sweet voluntary. Tien
the white-robed choristers, the clergy, and
the bishop came, followed almost at once
by the bridegroom, who bore himself with
his usual nonchalant ease, as he walked to
the altar, accompanied by his " best man."

There was a pause, and Maynard,
who was in a state of mind he hardly
understood, was painfully watching the
closed door which led from the cloister.

Presently it was thrown back ; the organ
and choristers burst forth into a hymn,
the congregation rose, and the bride, pale,
proud, and magnificently beautiful, passed
in with her hand upon her father's arm.

Maynard breathed hard; following her
with his eyes, he saw Lord Wandsworth
smitten with a strange, proud realization
of his happiness, as, with a grave smile,
he met his bride.

Presently the organ stopped, and the
bishop's clear, distinct, but feeble voice
began the service.

Maynard was deeply touched,  not that
he gave any outward sign of his emotion.
The events of the last few months had
tried him much, and his nerves were
painfully overstrung. This grand ceremonial,
the music, the flowers, excited him,
but it was with distress. He so feared
that proud, lovely woman had made a fatal
mistake. Ah ! how well he understood
that no refined magnificence could constitute
a true marriage!

Venetia's responses were low, but
distinct ; there was no faltering, the
service was soon over, and the bride,
calm, pale, stately  every inch a countess
was receiving the good wishes of her
more intimate friends.

My best wishes for ever, dear Lady

Wandsworth," said Majnard, pressing her
hand, and smiHng down into her face,
which for an instant changed.

Thank sou, Hubert."

A lady, closely veiled, who was in one
of the seats where the light was dim, but
where she had a perfect view of the ceremony,
waited until the last of the guests
had vanished through the door opening
into the cloisters, when she joined others
of the congregation who went into the
chancel to inspect more closely the lovely
decorations of flowers. Before she left
she picked up one fragrant white spray of
stephanotis, which had been thrown before
Yenetia's feet when, with her hand on
Lord "Wandsworth's arm, she returned
from the altar. At the chancel-steps she
had just raised her eyes to distinguish
Edith among the crowd of faces all bent
upon her in admiration, but her swift

glance was in vain. She had entreated
Edith to be one of the guests, as she would
not be a bridesmaid, and many letters had
passed between them ; but Edith proposed
to see the service incognita, and Yenetia in
the end thought she was right, as she
always was.

How little Maynard imagined who was
watching him with such deep interest !
But once a sudden remembrance of Edith
came to him also. Had he been true they
would have been there as husband and wife.
She saw all his emotion, and pitied him,
thinking the while that not for many, many
months would she see him again, since he
was going to start at once on his long travels.
'' Might he return in peace and safety," she
prayed. She could but be very much
touched by this service. It was one in
which she would never take part as a
bride ; but was not her solitariness better

a thousand times tliaii this marriage, wherefor
one the chief charm was lacking ?
Venetia had looked exactly as she had
imagined she would ; she was coldly magnificent.
No, it was certainly not a marriage
springing from affection on her side.
But Edith was agreeably surprised by Lord
"Wandsworth's bearing ; there could be no
doubt that he was very much in love with
his beautiful bride.

Among the many brilliant carriages
and smart liveries, one old fly was conspicuous
from its shabbiness, and into this
Edith stepped and was driven back to the
station. As she passed through the village,
where the church-bells were clanging their
loudest, and where the whole population
seemed bent on enjoying themselves, in
spite of the cold murky day, she felt very,
much '' out of it all," to use an expressive
if vulgar phrase. When she reached the

station a thick, persistent rain, almost
cold enough for snow, came on. A
wretched fire smouldered in the grate ; the
fire wanted a vigorous stir-up, but no
poker was visible in the dreary waiting-room,
and with these comfortless surroundings
Miss Fleming, of Carstone, was obliged
to eat her modest luncheon of sandwiches
and sherry on this wedding-day of her
friend, now the Countess of Wandsworth.
Such a situation was certainly not conducive
to romance ; yet Edith, while she
hung shivering over the fire that gave out
no heat, was, in spirit, with the brilliant
party at the abbey. How well she remembered
each room, each cloister, each long
corridor or dark windy passage, and all
the weird stories of ghosts, pillage, and
strange deeds ! How frightened she had
been at night when sometimes the wintry
wind would send a heavy door to with a

bang wMcli resounded from room to room,
like a peal of thunder, dying away in the
distance ! Ali, what masquerades they had
had there as children, with Hubert Maynard
and George Stanley, ever first in all
pranks of mischief ! And Yenetia, the
wildest, most daring spirit of them all, was
the stately countess of to-day ! Had Edith .
been a Latin scholar, she would no doubt
have finished up her remembrances with a
line from Horace applicable to the subject,
but they were rudely disturbed by a
modern instance."

Train for Eastminster just coming,
ma'am."

How she blessed the porter who brought
her a hot foot-warmer ! She was wretchedly
cold, and the dismal rain and damp
seemed to have penetrated the very air
inside the carriage. What a travesty
of a wedding-day, as far as regarded

the weather. The earl and countess would
have to stay at no wretched station, but
travel by a special train direct from an
old Warwickshire town to Eastminster.
Mr. Ringmer had imbibed a great liking
and respect for Miss Fleming, and, being a
town-councillor, having a few tickets of admittance
to the station of Eastminster on
the occasion of the arrival of the bride and
bridegroom, had kindly sent her one, knowing
she was a friend of Miss Stanley.
This reception was to be very grand  an
address from the mayor, a bouquet from the
mayor's daughter, and all the ceremonies
which great people must endure as an
appanage of their state. So Edith was not
surprised when she arrived there to find
the whole station lighted, with flags,
flowers, red cloth and bunting everywhere,
and a crowd of people patiently waiting
on the platform. Coming from the dark

dreariness of the November evening the
light and colour had a most cheerful and
pleasant appearance. But in spite of the
Hghts the platform was cold and draughty,
and Edith, shivering, began to wish the
'' special " would make its appearance. She
found some amusement, however, in watching
divers of her companions, for there
was a variety of people on the platform.
The terrible anxiety of the mayor about
his speech or address ; the uneasy appearance
of the mayoress, who, absurdly overdressed,
did not look born even to her
new dignity. Almost the only person of
the municipal group who was natural
and not self-conscious was the mayor's
little daughter, a sweet-looking child,
whose large blue eyes looked out into the
darkness for the red-flash of the engine-lights,
and then at the magnificent bouquet
which she held, and which she was to pre-vol.
ir. u

sent to the countess. Editli had her veil
down, and also kept rather in the background,
for she did not wish to be recognized
either by the people around her, or
by Yenetia when she came. Punctually to
the minute the train slowly drew in, the
central saloon-carriage just opposite the
mayor, who, very red, cleared his throat.
Two powdered footmen, with long greatcoats,
were immediately at the door of the
carriage, which was opened with due respect
by the station-master. Lord Wandsworth
alighted, amidst tremendous cheering,
and then assisted his bride to descend.
Almost immediately the mayor began, but
what he said Edith never knew, for she
could not remove her eyes from Yenetia.
Surely she was the most beautiful countess
ever seen !  a woman of a most imperial
loveliness. She looked pale and tired, but
there was a gracious courtesy in her response

to the enthusiastic welcome and
greeting accorded her. Not one tear had
she shed ; she was in a state of excitement
far beyond tears, and weary of the long
day and its trying ceremonies. The mayor
had finished ; the little girl, who had never
removed her eyes from Yenetia's face, presented
the bouquet with a silence more
eloquent than words, and Yenetia, touched
by this pure young homage, bent and
kissed the child's sweet face. And then
the cheers rang forth again until Lord
Wandsworth's high-bred voice, with its
distinct enunciation, was heard in short but
appropriate thanks. Then, amid more
cheering, the bride and bridegroom were
permitted to pass to their carriage, their
path being again strewed with flowers. At
length the carriage-door w as shut ; the
hurrahing crowd frightened the four noble
horses, which plunged wildly, and then
u 2

dashed forward on their way home. Edith,
feeling still more dejected, waited wearily
until the train came ; fortunately it was
not late, and in an hour's time she was
again in the musty fly which had brought
her from Carstone in the morning. The
journey was so long and unending that at
length she began to imagine that the old
horse was asleep, and was performing his
work in a dream by merely galloping without
advancing. Never had she been more
intensely glad to reach home than she was
this night, after her long, wearying day.
Yes, there was at last the dear old house,
and there were warmth and shelter and
welcome awaiting her, for it was home.
Before she reached the door it was opened,
and there was John, with a pleasant background
of light in the old hall.

I am afraid ye are very tired, ma'am,"
said he. '' If you'll go in to the fire, I'll
settle with James, ma'am."

And Edith was only too glad to follow
Ms advice. In a few minutes he was
back.

I have but just got the squire to bed,
Miss Edith; he got so uncommon tired
and sleepy."

How has he been to-day, John ? "

"Wonderful clear-headed at times, miss,
and then wandering and kind o' lost."

"Ah!"

The squire have been wandering a good
deal this evening; he will have it as it's
you as is married, and not Miss Stanley,"
said John, poking up the fire ; " so I'd just
agree to whatever he says, if I was you,
ma'am ; for he was a little excited awhile
back, and he won't get to sleep if he's
put out."

Edith heard her old servant in silence.
What, if in this terrible world of changes
John should die? What should she do
without him ? Quietly she went into the

spacious, comfortable room, where the
firelight threw a ruddy glow over everything.


Is that you, Edith ? " asked the poor
squire. " Where's your husband, my dear ?
I'd like to see him. Ah ! a grand wedding
you have had. But why wasn't I there ? My
daughter married, and I not there to give
her away ! "

Try and go to sleep now, father, dear ;
I will tell you all about the wedding tomorrow,"
said she, putting her cool hand
on her father's burning brow.

Yes, tomorrow, tomorrow ; bring
Hubert tomorrow. Sleep is best now.
Good-night, my dear Edith."

She stayed until his breathing told that
he gently slept. Ah, how infinitely sad was
this death in life, this mental confusion of
a once strong-brained man ! For a few
minutes Edith's heart swelled with an

unspeakable grief. At length she was
sitting at lier long-deferred, simple dinner,
for wliicli she had but little appetite, while
John hovered about her, a grim ministering
angel. Her thoughts, when she was alone,
reverted to Wandsworth Castle, where my
lord and my lady had probably dined instate,
with perhaps four or six giants to
anticipate their slightest wish, while six
pairs of eyes watched each spoonful of
soup which they conveyed to their lips.

Oh, what dreary magnificence at such a
time ! thought Edith. But in a month she
had a pleasure in view ; Harry and Dorcas
were coming home for Christmas. Both
were extremely happy, and fulfilling their
anxious friends' and relatives' expectations.
And now we must bid them farewell for a
time.

CHAPTER I.

She sings Hke one immortal."

Pericles, Chorus to Act v.

But Nature never framed a woman's heart
Of prouder stuff than that of Beatrice ;
Disdain and scorn ride sparkling in her eyes,
Misprizing what they look on."

MiLch Ado about Nothing, Act iii. Sc. 1.

In May of the second year following
Lady Wandsworth's marriage, and on the
Thursday immediately preceding Whitsunday,
there was considerable stir and
excitement in the musical world of the
cathedral city of Eastminster. That night
the annual concert of the County Philharmonic
Society was to take place, and the

9 VOL III. B

concert would be the occasion of the debut
of a young and promising soprano who
belonged to the county. Various rumours
had gone forth respecting the beauty of
the debutante, as well as of the sweetness
and power of her voice. Mr. Hartley,
the cathedral organist and prime manager
and director of these pleasant music meetings,
declared to Mrs. Molyneux, the
bishop's wife, that he had seldom heard
anything more perfect than Miss Finch's
voice and style of singing. Mrs. Molyneux
was very 'musical," and under her patronage
the " Philharmonic " had become a very
fashionable institution. All the great
ladies of the county became patronesses,
and sometimes charmed the ears of
the citizens by taking the solos, duets,
trios, &c., at these same concerts in the
grand old Shire Hall. So all the musical
portion of the county society determined

to do honour to their joining '' county-woman,"
who was destined to reflect a
good deal of brilliance on them by her
acknowledged ability. Among other ladies,
the Countess of Wandsworth left town
a few days earlier than usual, for the
Whitsuntide recess, on purpose to be present,
and with her she brought a host of
fashionable people. Madame Saroni had
much wished to be present at this first
essay of her fascinating pupil in public,
but was unfortunately prevented by illness
from accompanying her to Eastminster.
However, as the days of her pupilage were
now over, she provided her with an excellent
person, half duenna, half maid, to
be with her constantly in future journeys
and visits to which her profession would
call her. Madame Saroni had also arranged

o

that Dorcas should take up her residence
in the home of her duenna's mother,
B 2

Mrs. Perkins, who lived at one of those old-fashioned
houses standing well back from
the road in a spacious garden, and which
are yet to be found in the neighbourhoods
of Fulham, Chelsea, and Crompton.

'' And who is this girl, Lady Wandsworth
? " asked one of the guests at the
castle, with languid interest.

'' I believe she comes from one of our
old yeoman families. At any rate her
people have lived on the Flemings' land
for three hundred years."

Oh ! a very respectable family,
then ? "

Highly so."

' Is she educated  I mean more than
her profession requires ? "

'' I believe she has received a most
thorough education, and is in all ways a
well-bred young lady."

"Ah, that makes her more interesting,

especially as I hear she is very beautiful.
The world seems to turn round now with
wonderful velocity, when we hear of the
daughter of a tenant-farmer being a well-bred
young lady with much education ! "

I am sure you will allow that my judgment
is correct, Lady Agnew, when you
see Miss Finch to-night."

'' Do you know her, Lady "Wandsworth? "
asked a dashing young fellow, blessed
with more wealth, rank, and leisure than
he knew what to do with.

No, only by report from friends of
mine, who are greatly interested in her."

What a pity you don't know her ! you
might have asked her here, you know.
Awfully jolly to meet such a pretty girl."

I intend to call upon her tomorrow,
and ask her over for a few days."

*' Now that is nice of you. Lady Wandsworth
! " exclaimed young Heslop.

At that precise moment, Dorcas was reading
a letter which, with a small package,
adjust reached her, in a room of the great
rambling and once most important county
inn, the Bull Hotel at Eastminster.
The Golden Eagle,

Eastminster, May 14/i.

Dearest Dorcas,

Since my return home last March,
I have written letter after letter to you,
and your only answer is, that you can
neither meet me, nor correspond with me,
because you have promised your father
not to do so. What right had you to give
such a promise ? Do you not owe me
something, as well as your father? For
nearly two years I have never spoken to
you, though lately I have often seen and
indeed been nearer to you many times
than you have imagined. Sometimes I
feel tempted to compel yo u to meet me ; it

is only ray love and my consideration for
you that prevent me from yielding to the
temptation. But pray understand that
I cannot bear this intolerable state of
suspense much longer. I cannot believe
that you have ceased to love me, and I do
appeal to you once more to meet me. Do
you remember speaking of such an evening
as this to me ?  one day at the farm  one
day before I had grown dear to you ? Do
you remember asking me to take tickets and
witness your triumph ? I little thought
then of how I must witness it. Be sure I
shall be there, but nowhere near or visible
to you to disturb you. Since it is your
fervent desire to succeed in your present
undertaking, I trust you will ; and yet,
dear Dorcas, it hurts me cruelly that any
publicity should attach itself to your sweet
life. I send with this a little necklace of
pearls; will you not accept it from me,

your lover  yes, and future husband,
Dorcas? Wear it to-night, and I shall
know that I am still dear to you.
Yours always,

Hubert John Maynard."
This note, with all its touching emotion,
was not a desirable one for a debutante to
receive a few hours before her appearance.
The various letters which Captain Maynard
mentioned had been a source of much pain
and disquiet to her. Her position had
grown extremely difficult. Until her father
absolved her from her promise, she felt it
simply impossible to meet her lover; though
love and pity were urging her to grant
his request, for she felt she did indeed owe
him much, who was content to sacrifice so
much for her. She could not be otherwise
than unhappy ; though time and experience
had given her far greater self-command.
Nevertheless this letter was a blow, simply

because Maynard had grown infinitely more
precious to her ; and to cause him suffering
was the extreme of pain to herself.
Yet she was helpless and powerless to
avert his suffering ; and the worst of it all
was, that she saw no way out of her perplexities
 no ending of this miserable state
of irresolution and suspense. She was altered
in the last eighteen months, but the
alteration had made her more lovely, more
charming, through her deeper knowledge of
life and its complex issues, and her own
suffering, which had strengthened and ennobled
her character. Ah ! what must she do ?
she wondered, as, trembling a little, she still
held the letter in her hand, and thought
deeply until the only solution came  she
must deny him ; but she felt she must write
more fully than before, and explain her
reasons. She presently remembered his
gift, and looking on the parcel hesitated to

open it; but surely, though she must at once
return it, it would be unkind and ungracious
not to look at the necklace. The pearls
soon lay in all their beauty before her eyes.
It was no ordinary present, but costly and
magnificent, and would have been appropriate
as a gift to a great lady, but not
to Dorcas Finch, thought she, as, rather
alarmed, and deeply touched by her lover's
generosity, she looked on the fair jewels.
They must be returned at once, for on no
account could she accept anything from
him until they were really engaged  if ever
they should be. Then she securely locked
them up in a trunk, as well as the letter,
which had disturbed her so.

At half-past seven the Shire Hall was
filling fast with that portion of the audience
who had not secured reserved tickets.
Amongst those who passed into the second
seats was a tall lady, closely veiled, and in

deep mourning. For a minute the chairs
on either side of her remained vacant ; then
a tall, dark, rather melancholy-looking man
sat down by her left. The lady started a
little as she bowed to him, and said in a
low voice, 

Then you have come, too, Mr. Williams ;
but I should have known you would be
here."

Yes, Miss Fleming, but you are in
the wrong place."

No, no ; if she recognized me, she
might be nervous, and I want her to be
completely successful."

*' Ah ! so do I. I think I am pretty well
hidden by the lady's bonnet in front of me;
if not I will go into the gallery."

Oh, it would be impossible for her to
see us here."

Meanwhile a man with a light overcoat,
concealing a gentleman's ordinary evening

dress, and with the collar of the coat turned
up, as if lie lead a bad throat to protect,
went up with the third class people into the
gallery, which faced the orchestra, but at
such a distance that no one there could be
recognized by the person who might be
singing. Captain Maynard, by dint of
some pushing, secured a place in the front
row, and so the whole interior of the grand
building lay before him. His companions,
one a stout motherly woman, and the other a
would-be " swell" in a cheap way, evidently
regarded him with suspicion. Why in such
a warm, comfortable atmosphere did the
gentleman keep on that overcoat, with the
collar up to his ears ? Time went on, and
the orchestra began to fill with the chorus,
all of whom were well-known ladies and
gentlemen of the city and neighbourhood.
Then came the band, with the usual discordant
tuning up,  terrible sounds to a

delicate ear. The chorus being seated, the
fairer portion, some of whom were remarkably
pretty, were chatting and nodding and
laughing over their fans to their friends in
the reserved seats, and indeed indulging in a
good deal of innocent by-play . A great many
of the reserved seats remained empty, but
it still lacked a few minutes of eight o'clock.
The bishop and Mrs. Molyneux and a large
party came in amid the respectful murmurs
of the audience. Two of their children
were in the chorus. Other grand folks
followed the advent of the good bishop,
but the grandest of all had not yet put in
an appearance. Presently there was a little
stir and sensation, and Edith heard someone
behind her say, '' Here is the countess
and her party at last." And a large party
it was. The red-headed earl led the way
with a handsome, bold-looking woman ;
then followed a number of young and old

guests, last of all Lady Wandsworth with,
her father, Lord Charles Stanley. Edith
looked eagerly at the beautiful, stately
lady as she swept by, magnificent in her
dress and jewellery, and noted all the
proud unhappiness in her face. What a
change, what a lamentable change from
the bride of less than two years before !
Her expression startled Edith, who lived
far removed from the temptations and
weariness of the great world. ]sot two
years ! and yet she seemed perfectly indifferent
as to any opinion people might
form from her gloomy face.

Edith thanked God she was free, subject
to no husband's rule, pained by no
husband's infidelities. 'poor Yenetia!" she
thought sadly, while hundreds there were
envying Venetia's state and magnificence,
little knowing how dearly they had been
purchased.

The band immediately struck up with,
the overture to " Tannhauser," after which
fine music there was a Utile waiting ; for
Mr. Hartley had disappeared, but presently
returned, leading by the hand a
tall and graceful young lady, who appeared
somewhat nervous, for she was very pale
when she reached her chair. She was
greeted with some enthusiasm, which grew
in intensity when the audience realized
how very lovely she was. The cheering
evidently abashed her, for it was so clearly
a tribute to her personal attractions; and
as she bowed gracefully, but still rather
haughtily, the eloquent blood spread in a
quick transient blush over her face and
neck. Then people had the good taste
to be silent. Again the band played a
beautiful introduction, for Dorcas was to
sing a solo which from time to time would
be taken up by the chorus.

Captain Maynard, painfully excited, had
his opera-glass to his eyes, and was scanning
every feature of his pale, beautiful
beloved, who was looking then into the
sheet of music she held. When he saw
she wore nothing round her throat, a half
exclamation broke from him, and the stout
woman, seeing his pallor and wild dark
eyes, began to think it would be advisable
to move her seat. Just then, however, at
a signal from the conductor, Dorcas rose ;
she put her handkerchief to her lips a
moment, and then, looking at Mr. Hartley,
began. She was evidently very nervous,
for the voice, so full of exquisite cadence,
was uncertain and trembled, and there
appeared just then to be a want of power
in her chest to send the notes forth.
It was a moment of such tension as
comes happily but seldom in a lifetime.
Gradually she became accustomed to her

own voice, though she was hardly conscious
of what she was singing, and the
faces before her became one blurred
mass. The band appeared to feel for
her, for they tried to cover her hesitation
; this little touch of sympathy brought
back self-command, and, as if by magic, her
love for her glorious art triumphed ; she
forgot everything except that she must do
justice to the immortal composition she
was singing ; and, dropping her musica
little, she folded her hands in an
easy, graceful position, and sent forth the
magnificent notes as the dead composer
meant them to be sung. A wild burst of
applause followed from the audience, band,
and chorus. To several people that exhibition
of nervousness had been intense pain.

Edith closed her eyes and trembled,
fearing a total collapse, Dorcas was so
deadly pale.

VOL. III.

E-euben almost groaned, fearing lie knew
not what, and Maynard suffered horribly,
seeing, as he did, with his powerful glass
every troubled movement of her bosom.
Great Heaven ! that she should subject herself
to such an ordeal  that her sweet virginal
beauty should be seen by the vulgar
mob, when she might be his wife, and safe !

Lady Wandsworth was so near, that she
required no opera-glass to scan Dorcas.
She had expected to see a lovely girl, but
not one possessing such ' delicate refined
beauty. When the hesitation was apparent,
she could not look, she felt such
positive pain and compassion.

Poor girl ! " she said to herself, and she
felt her eyes filling with sudden tears,
though she was one who seldom gave way
to the melting mood. Her fail in its slow
graceful movement sent flashes of light into
Dorcas's eyes, and attracted her, when she

had regained her self-possession, to the
fine, sad, but now sympathetic face behind
it.

Yenetia, of late slow to be touched, was
now very powerfully moved. That this
lovely woman, singing so exquisitely, should
have at her feet one of the most courted
men of society seemed but natural ; but
that he might not make her his wife without
disobedience to his relative's commands
seemed very hard. Behind that
friendly fan Yenetia studied the beautiful
face. And then, even with the music crashing
around her, she began to ask herself
what strange fascination there was in Hubert
Maynard, that three women had been in
love with him? That Edith, with her
wisdom,  herself, with her unwisdom, and
poor Dorcas yonder, with all her delicate
beauty and cleverness,  had each in their
own way considered him worth loving?


Decidedly the world was much out of
joint, when such things occurred ! So the
concert went on, and Dorcas gave her
whole soul to her art, when she saw, when
she felt, the entrancing power she possessed
over her audience. Again and again she
encountered the surprised, sad, but kind
eyes of the beautiful lady whom she
recognized as Lady Wandsworth. There
was something about the countess which
completely fascinated Dorcas, and she sang
as if for her alone.

At the conclusion she received an ovation.
Bouquets of delicate flowers were
thrown at her feet, and Venetians was
almost bridal in its whiteness. When
she and the conductor gathered them
up, she held Lady Wandsworth's to
her heart, in a very sweet way, curtseying
gracefully again and again, with her
eyes full of tears ; for the triumph, the

cheering, was too great. Then, with her
hands full of flowers, the young singer
vanished, and the audience took their
departure.

Dorcas, alone with her spoils, was a
pretty picture. She was flushed, thrilled
with her triumph. She was so intensely
glad, so intensely thankful that she had at
last answered the expectations of those
dear friends who had done so much for her.
There was only one disappointment to alloy
her happiness  it was that Edith, to whom
she owed everything, had not witnessed
her success. For Edith had breathed no
word of her intention to be present at
the concert, fearing her being there might
affect Dorcas.

While the latter was standing, lost in
exquisite dreams of the future, and wishing
with an intense longing to see Edith,
there was a little knock at the door, and

a tall lady in deep mourning, but with
her veil thrown back, and with the
sweetest of smiles on her worn face, came
in and gently shut the door behind her.

"Dorcas!"

Edith ! " and then Dorcas, a vision of
loveliness, was in her friend's arms, and
close to her heart.

Their first words may be imagined ; it
took a few minutes for them to subdue
their very natural and happy emotion.

And now, Edith, you are my guest ; you
shall sup with me  no refusal. Oh ! how
excited I am ! " putting her hands to her
burning cheeks.

Soon, amidst much quiet laughter, they
were discussing their supper, which was a
mere pretence, for they were both too
excited to eat.

After a short time Edith said goodnight,
and went to her own room. She

saw Dorcas so agitated, so overjoyed, that
she feared she would not sleep, and her
protegee had to sing at another concert
the next night, lot a word had been said
about Captain Maynard ; that subject must
be discussed the next morning. Of course
sleep, after such a momentous evening,
was impossible. With the weary, weary
hours, the brilliant hues, which had at first
coloured every hope, faded into grey ; she
remembered that other part of her life,
which had nothing to do with the sweetness
of triumphs in the musical world.
To love so, and yet to suffer so ! Then
came back all the temptation, irresolution,
and dejection, ending of course with tears,
Which none but a pitying God might see.

On the breakfast-table lay the following
note, 

Am I to understand then that you
wish to forget me, since you would not

wear my gift ? Dorcas, it cannot be so.
When I remember your love of two years
ago I cannot think yoii would be either
faithless or cruel. At any rate I entreat
you to let me see you. For your own sake
our meeting must be unknown. If you
will go to Beecham by train this afternoon,
I will be in the higher woods on the left
hand side from the station. Your triumph
last night was to me most exquisite pain !
It is not right that you, my future wife,
should be subject either to the admiration
or disapproval of an insolent mob ! Do
not disappoint me, unless you wish me to
be more unhappy than I am now.

H. J. M."
She had expected another appeal, and
here it was. But she must disappoint him ;
she dared not meet him, lest he with all
his power and fascination should persuade
her to take that step which would be a

direct disobedience to his uncle, and to her
own father. After a few minutes' deep
thought, she wrote hastily the following
letter, 

The Bull,

Westminster, May Ihtli.
Dear Captain Maynard,

Your letters of yesterday and this
morning compel me to write to you more
fully in explanation of my conduct. First
let me thank you for your beautiful
and most generous gift. Were I indeed
engaged to you with your uncle's consent,
you must feel how gladly I would have
worn the pearls last night ; but if you
think a moment, I am sure you
will understand that, in my present
position with regard to you, it is quite
impossible for me to accept any gift from
you. Pray believe that I appreciate the
kind thought which prompted such a

costly present, and pardon me for
rejecting it. In a few days I trust you
will receive the case in safety. I think
you must be unconscious that your repeated
letters are a source of great unhappiness
to me. I have told you that I
am powerless to accede to your wishes ;
but surely you understand that I should
esteem it my greatest privilege and happiness
to be your wife, if I could be without
self-condemnation, but you know I cannot.
Do not think me cruel because I cannot
meet you to-day as you wish ; believe that
it costs me much to deny you. May I ask
you in the future to abstain from writing
to me ? I appeal to your generosity to
spare me both the expression of your love,
and of your reproach. I will not insult
you by wishing you to forget me, and
to turn to another woman; for I know
I possess your affection for ever, and am

botJb proud and most unhappy to have
won such a noble love. How ill I should
requite that love, if I allowed you to make
the terrible sacrifice which your marriage
to me would entail on you ! And let me
confess that I am too proud a woman to
enter any family against the direct command
of its head, by a clandestine
marriage. Therefore, dear Captain Maynard,
we must remain even as we are, until
Sir William Maynard will give you his
consent. Forgive me the pain I am
causing you.

'' And believe me,

'' Yours most truly,

Dorcas Finch."

CHAPTER II.

Anger is like a full hot horse,
Who being allow'd his way,
Self-mettle tires him."

Henry VIII., Act i. Sc. 7.

Sweet recreation barr'd, what doth ensue
But moody and dull melancholy,
Kinsman to grim and comfortless despair ? "
Comedy of Errors, Act v. Sc. 1 .

Dorcas, when lie read her letter over, felt
dissatisfied with it, and was half inclined
to tear it up and write another ; but at that
moment Edith entered the room, and after
very cordial greetings said, 

'' I came before, but you were sweetly
asleep, my dear, and though I did just
venture to look at you, I was too merciful

to disturb you. But you look extremely
tired this morning."

I could not get to sleep."

'' Now I have some business which
necessitates a long drive to Barrow ; it's a
most delicious morning, so be expeditious,
dear, and get ready  we can be back by
half-past twelve."

But, Edith, I can't go. What a pity !
it would have been so nice."

Why can't you go, dear ? "

Captain Maynard is here, you know
I must not meet him."

Has he written to you again ? "

Yes ; twice. Do make haste and come
back, I want so much to talk to you," she
said hurriedly.

'poor Dorcas'* with a sweet smile.
Well, it really is too bad you should be
done out of your drive this lovely morning,
but perhaps you had better stay in.

And I must go, or I shall have no time with
you. Good-bye; don't look so anxious; think
of your splendid triumph last night ! But
what have you to occupy yourself with ?"

''Oh! I shall try to make a sketch of
Lady Wandsworth's face."

''Ah! isn't she beautiful ? "

She is a goddess, Edith."

With her luggage Dorcas had her
pencils and water-colours, and other
necessaries for making sketches. Since
her very unsuccessful attempts at drawing
Edith and Captain Maynard, she had
improved very much, and often employed
her leisure moments in drawing from
memory some face which had struck her.
She was very happy now in being able to
catch the expression of a person. Her
productions were, of course, faulty at the
best, yet pleasing to look upon. At
noon she was quite immersed in her

pleasant occupation, and was succeeding
far better than lie lead thought possible.
Some one came to the door ; it was the
head waiter with a lady's card on a
tray.

It's the countess, miss."

The countess ? "

Yes; Lady Wandsworth, ma'am, wants
to know if you was disengaged, if so she'd
like to see you."

Oh, certainly ; pray show Lady
Wandsworth up."

Dorcas was more than a little disturbed
while she awaited her visitor, who seemed
to her a link with Maynard's life.
Venetia, studiously simple in her dress,
came in with a smile on her face that
softened her proud eyes, and made her
whole bearing gracious. Dorcas had
taken the precaution to lay a sheet of
blotting-paper over her drawing ; but

what if Lady Wandsworth should ask to
see her work ?

Good morning Miss Finch ; so you
have survived your triumph. I daresay "
taking a chair at Dorcas's request 
that you are rather surprised to see me ;
but I have long wished to know you, and
indeed feel a little guilty of negligence in
not having called on you at Madame
Saroni's. However, I am here now. I
have heard so much of you from our
mutual friend. Captain Maynard," continued
Yenetia in a soft caressing voice.

Here Dorcas blushed so painfully, and
then turned so pale, that her visitor
averted her eyes and noticed the watercolours.


"What! are you a universal genius,
Miss Finch ? Ater-colours ! May I
look? Why  it's myself!" and Venetia
bit her lip, and the proud colour came to

her face a moment, as she recognized the
truth of the likeness and the insight this
clever girl possessed.

I am afraid I have been guilty of a
great liberty," said poor Dorcas, seeing
the momentary annoyance of Lady Wandsworth
; " but your face fascinated me so ;
you looked so kind."

And  and very melancholy too, to
judge by your most excellent painting."

Then she laughed lightly, but the colour
lingered, and though she gave Dorcas a
kind look, her eyes and lips still expressed
a suspicion of haughty surprise.

I was not aware I was being so  "

'' Pray forgive me. Lady Wandsworth.
When a face strikes me, I always try to
remember it, as you see," smiling.

And a very charming accomplishment
it is, though hardly fair on your friends.
Miss Dorcas. But you are quite forgiven,"

VOL. III. D

said she, holding oat a slender, beautifully-gloved
hand, and with nothing but an
affectionate softness in her manner, which
was irresistibly " taking."

Now I came expressly to carry you
back to luncheon at the castle. You have
made such an impression on my guests
that they express themselves as dying to
be introduced to you."

*' Dear Lady Wandsworth, you are too
kind; but, you know, I don't belong to
your society."

There can be no distinction between
ladies of education and refinement, and
ladies who are such by birth," said Yenetia
gravely.

Not to you perhaps, because you are
so generous, and perhaps interested in
me ; but to other people I could only
appear what I am  Dorcas Finch  a professional
singer ! But pray understand

that I glory in my profession. You are
great and good and grand enough to despise
such small distinctions, but the
smaller people cannot afford to despise
them."

Do not speak to me of being great or
good," said Yenetia, with the gloom
returning to her eyes. " I am so
conscious of being neither. Does that,"
pointing to the drawing, " give the
impression of a woman being what you
say ? "

*eyes, yes, of all; but with the addition
pardon me  of great unhappiness. It
was that expression which so touched me,
so drew me to you, because  because
I too am sometimes most unhappy,"
said Dorcas with a simplicity touched
with tragic passion, as she stood with
clasped hands and earnest eyes before her
visitor.

D 2

Yenetia, startled and deeply touched,
remained silent.

Ah ! Lady Wandsworth, I have
offended you."

Offended me ! ISTo, I could never be
offended by your frankness."

'* But frankness is sometimes almost
rudeness ; forgive me if I have dared to
be too frank."

Miss Finch, I should like to see much
of you in the future ; you might  I know
the cause of your unhappiness. By-and-by,
I trust, the difficulties which divide you
from Captain Maynard will be removed,"
she said, looking away from Dorcas for
some little time.

Then you will not return with me ? I
would send you back in ample time for the
concert."

You are most kind, but I think it will
be best for me to remain here ; thank

you, dear Lady Wandswortli ; pray understand
how much, how very much, I feel
your kindness. I have also another reason
for declining  Miss Fleming came over to
the concert, and is staying here until four
o'clock."

Ah ! is she ? I should have liked to
see her so much, but I cannot wait longer ;
give her my kindest love. I am very sorry
I have been unsuccessful ; some day,
however, I feel sure you will be my

guest."

Yenetia was looking very thoughtfully

and earnestly into her companion's face.

You remind me of lilies of the valley ;
you are so sweet and delicate  and lovely,
Dorcas," she continued absently.

Dorcas blushed under her dreamy gaze,
but soon saw that Yenetia's thoughts had
gone back to some other day. Sighing,
she rose.

'' I should like to kiss you  may I ? "
asked the stately lady with all the gloom
returned to her eyes.

The beautiful faces touched.

*' Keep your sweet innocence, Dorcas ;
it is too soon lost in this evil world.
Good-bye, or rather cm revoir until to-night,
when I shall be charmed with your exquisite
voice again. No, no, you must not
come down."

With a smile she returned to the
carriage, which was standing just before
the entrance to the hotel, while some
people lingered on the pavement to get a
look at the countess. Dorcas could see
her perfectly from her window. Just
as she was starting Lady Wandsworth
looked up, and, seeing her, bowed kindly,
and was then swiftly borne away.

Presently, when the carriage was just
leaving the city, a gentleman, who was

walking on the pavement, raised his bat
to her.

Stop, Jervis ; I want to speak to Captain
Maynard. How do you do ? I did
not know you were here, but I suppose
you came for the concert ? "

'' Yes, I was passing through to Carrington
for the rook-shooting."

I have just been to call on Miss Finch ;
she is perfectly charming."

I am sure Miss Finch will appreciate
your great kindness. Lady "Wandsworth."

I ought to have called on her in town,
but there never seems time for half one
ought to do. Now I have met you, do get
in and come to the castle for luncheon."

Not to-day, thank you."

Then can you dine with us tomorrow ?
The dinner will be so hurried and early
to-night, as we must be in again at the
palace at half-past eight."

T am very sorry, but my stay here is
only for a few hours longer."

'' Then good-bye."

Again the footman mounted the box,
and Lady "Wandsworth, shading her face
with her parasol, fell into a fit of deep
abstraction. Strange that she should be so
sad, when to ordinary mortals it appeared
that she ought to be so content ! She
never noticed when the carriage turned
into the beautiful undulating park, where
the glades of majestic trees were justin
their first delicate foliage, nor did she
raise her eyes to the fine pile of buildings
which constituted the castle, and where
the flag was gaily flying from the highest
tower, to tell the neighbourhood that my
lord and lady were at home. Yes, she
had everything, and yet she had nothing !

Just before the countess left the hotel,
Edith had returned from her business

expedition, and the waiter informed her of
Dorcas's visitor. Edith was very pleased
that Yenetia had shown her ijrotegee such
a distinguished mark of kindness as to call
upon her. She knew only too well how
much the young and obscure are helped
by such attentions.

From a window in the room where she
was waiting, she witnessed Venetia's
departure. She would have liked to
speak to her, but thought, What had she
to do with one who lived in such a very
different world from her own ?

The intimacy Venetia had spoken
of and wished for before her marriage
had never been realized between them.
Often the much-envied countess longed
for the friendship of the woman she so
loved and respected ; but the division
between them became greater instead
of less, and it was, alas ! partly Venetia's

fault, for lie knew Edith would be
grieved hj various occurrences in her
married life, as it was known everywhere
that Lord and Lady Wandsworth
were most unhappy in their
marriage.

Edith's world was now very small. Her
father was lately dead, and Harry was
away in Afghanistan with his regiment,
with young Finch as a corporal under
him. Both young men were evidently
in their right place at last, and had considerably
distinguished themselves in some
recent engagements.

So Harry and Dorcas were now Edith's
greatest interests in life, and in thinking
for them she did not feel her loneliness
at the hall so much.

Her father's illness had been long and
painful, but to the last his gentle nurse
was with him, cheering him through

the dark valley with her beautiful affection.


Now all her thought, apart from Dorcas,
was to save for Harry ; to get things nice
for Harry, that lie might be able to live in
comfort when he returned a distinguished
soldier from those weary, weary wars.
Poor Edith ! it was a merciful thing that
the events of the next year were hidden 
when one day she would read in the Times,
after a great battle, in that terrible hist of
the killed  '' Lieutenant H. Fleming, after
a most heroic and gallant resistance."

Presently Edith, a complete contrast to
the lady who had so lately left, entered our
heroine's room. Edith looked so much
older than her years ; not sad or troubled,
but grave, calm, and thoughtful. A judge
of character would have said, " That
woman has had a great grief, and has conquered
it."

About her there was her old, and
indeed something more than her old command,
and all that dignity which had ever
charmed Dorcas.

Yenetia, who was a year older, looked
much younger than Edith ; whereas the
former's trouble had really made her
more beautiful, the latter had aged and
lost much of the vivacity of life.

So you have had a visitor," smiling.

Yes ; why didn't you come in ? Lady
Wandsworth wanted to see you so much."

My dear, countesses are too grand forme
; but I am very glad she has called on
you. She is kindness itself, and will be
only too glad to give you introductions in
London. Now, my dear Dorcas, where's
the luncheon? I had breakfast at eight,
remember."

Poor Edith ! "

Well, I have bought my cows, Dorcas."

"Your COWS?"

Oh, I forgot ; I didn't tell you, did I ?
So, you see, while you have been receiving
a member of the aristocracy, my dear, I
have been looking at all the points of my
six lovely shorthorns ! I don't suppose
that you, you ignorant young lady, know
a single point about a cow."

'' I am afraid I don't ; if ever I did, I
have forgotten."

*'I have been to such a charming old
place, a kind of moaned grange, with fishponds
and orchards abounding, and a nice
young farmer with such a pretty young
wife and child. I feel quite romantic, as
well as hungry, Dorcas dear."

So luncheon proceeded very happily.

 Why is Lady Wandsworth so unhappy
? " asked Dorcas impulsively.

I am afraid her marriage was rather

o

a hasty one, and  and Lord Wandsworth

is not one of the best of husbands," replied
Edith in a low tone.

'' I am so sorry for lier, she looks as if
she ought to be worshipped. How can
her husband be indifferent to her ? "

I don't think he is indifferent, but,
dear, there is some unhappy division
between them now; let us hope it may end
when a little more time has passed."

Edith," said Dorcas, leaning her head
on her hand, " did  did she ever like anyone
else ? "

"I have sometimes feared so; you know
they were constantly together."
Oh, how terribly, terribly sad ! "
*' Yes, dearest, but I feel sure she will
be happy in time. She is so warm of
heart, so tender in disposition, that she
must turn to her husband in time and
forgive him. And now, Dorcas, I am
going to ask you a very pertinent question.

How was it you never ' liked ' that true,
manly fellow, Reuben Williams ?"

I suppose because I ought to have
liked him."

"Perhaps so. I have an immense
respect for him ; he is always so calm
and wise."

'' Yes, he is a good man; I always felt
he was, but  "

I see a good deal of him now ; he very
kindly comes over and advises me, and
does not spare his criticisms. I can assure
you he is a splendid farmer. . You must
know I have set up a very pretty bay
mare, which, by the bye, Mr. Williams
found for me, so I ride over to my farm
every day two or three times. Well,
sometimes, when we are riding, this wise
Mr. Williams enters into a learned discussion
on the nature of different soils,
their chemistry, etc., until I feel myself a

dreadful ignoramus. In short, Dorcas,
this farm of mine is a blessed diversion.
Of course my prime adviser is your dear
father, but he has somehow such a high
opinion of my poor powers, and is besides
so very courteous, that he hesitates to tell
me when I have made mistakes."

My father rightly esteems you, dearest
Edith," said Dorcas, with sudden tears in
her sweet eyes.

And now, dear one, tell me about your
fresh trouble," said Edith caressingly.

Then Dorcas told her short story, and
showed her the letter she had written.

Will you send the jewels back for me,
dear Edith ?  I mean just post them here ;
I cannot, you know, without scandal."

Certainly I will, dear. Ah ! they are
indeed lovely pearls ; they will match your
throat when you wear them by-and-by
as Mrs. Maynard ! "

'* All ! but I fear I shall never be his
wife. How can he be constant ? He will
think my letter coldness itself, and yet
what can I do ? Edith, if I met him, if I
listened to him, I know I should yield; 1
could not hold out after his waiting so
long. And then my broken promise to my
father would bring a curse on my love."

Wait, my dear, patiently ; until your
father absolves you, I think you must
keep your solemn word. Ask him tomorrow;
tell him you have been obliged
to receive letters  surely he will set you
free. But your letter ought to be posted
I am afraid now it is too late to prevent
Captain Maynard a fruitless journey
to Beecham."

Oh, how sorry I am ! He will think
me so hard and cruel."

*' I will go at once ; there may be time,
after all."

VOL. III. E

But the letter never reached him until
nine o'clock that evening, when he had
returned from Beecham, after waiting from
three till seven with the vain hope of
meeting her. He returned with every
pulse beating with passionate anger and
scorn, and at once wrote such a letter, so
incoherent, so cruel, that the remembrance
of its bitter words cost him many an hour
of anguish afterwards.

Late that night, when she returned
very happy and jubilant from the Palace
Concert, she found this letter awaiting her.
She hurriedly opened it, and began reading.
As she read, her colour deepened
and her brow contracted with pain, anger,
and astonishment, and yet she half smiled
with incredulity ; but, long before she
reached the end, the smile had died away,
and there was a woman's deepest anguish
visible instead.

So be it then. It is his own act.
Eow unjust and cruel his words are,
when, oh, my God ! mj God ! I love him
so ! " she exclaimed in a whisper. Then
she read it again and again, until each
word and phrase was burnt into her
memory. She had dismissed her maid,
and sat on into the cold, silent morning,
too utterly crushed to be conscious of
aught except her extreme misery. For in
this wild expression of passion and reproach
she could see no gleam of comfort 
no hope that he would relent and return
to her. It was the incoherent letter of a
man whose heart was almost bursting
with love, and yearning for the woman he
was so pitilessly, so cruelly wounding ; it
was utterly unreasonable and unjustifiable.
His passion was so terrible to her that hei
brief anger passed into an immense pity
for him. It was his despair and disap-
E 2

ointment which had driven him to si] eh
extremity. At length, when the sun was
brilliant against her windows, and the city-was
awakening into the life of another day,
she wearily laid her burning, aching head
on her pillow. Not one tear had she shed,
and her suffering was the greater because
it was tearless.

Oh ! that he should have cast her off,
severed her so completely from himself,
when, in denying him, she was only doing
her duty ! For she never doubted his fierce
anger and his determination to leave her
for ever. He had caused her much keen
suffering and humiliation in the past, but
this desertion and breaking away from the
ties which bound them was the culmination
of all.

After Captain Maynard had posted his
letter he rang for wine ; he had had no
dinner, and was in that terrible state of

mental disturbance when it is said
the wicked one more easily tempts the
over-wrought soul to its own destruction.


He cared little for anything now that
he had revenged himself. Poor revenge !
he felt its recoil already. He drank glass
after glass of claret, and then went into
the city, proceeding with quick steps into
the cathedral close. There all was still.
The moonlight fell softly and brought
out into high relief the noble cathedral, as
it stood out against the blue sky, " thick
inlaid with parties of bright gold." A
curse fell from Maynard's lips, and he
hurried on until he was before the bishop's
palace. There the windows gleamed with
lights, and he heard the sounds of sweet
music, in which a delicate yet powerful
voice predominated. Then with another
curse, more bitter than the last, the unhappy

man walked away, not caring where he
went.

At eleven, when he was many miles
from Eastminster, he stopped at a stile,
and, leaning on it, pictured Dorcas reading
that letter, saw all her trouble, all
her astonishment and grief; he laughed,
and swore, and groaned, and strode on
again, whither he cared not. At five
o'clock the sleepy night-porter of the
Golden Eagle was aroused from his
slumbers to open the door to a gentleman
who looked, even to his heavy eyes,
*' uncommon ill and strange." Maynard
hardly knew where he had been, but he
had wearied out the awful temptation
which had assailed him, and returned calm
and full of contrition for his cruelty. At
once he wrote the following note, and
posted it before he threw himself on his
bed, utterly worn out, 

Only one word, my darling. Forgive
me, if you cii forgive me. I was mad
when I wrote that false, cruel letter !
Leave you? Never. The thought, now
that I am calm, is more bitter than death.
I will persecute you no more. Only believe
that with all my mad passion I love
and honour you more than ever. I will
wait as patiently as I can until your love
prompts you, for my sake, to forget the
obstacles which divide us. If you love
me, send me the assurance of your forgiveness.


** Yours for ever,

Hubert John Maynard."

The next day, when he reached his
rooms in London, he was stricken down
with brain fever, and was soon raving in
wild delirium. Dorcas awoke late, wearied
out with the heaviness of her trouble, and
feeling as if she had lost all the sweetness

from her life. Going listlessly into
the next room, she saw another letter 
a short note which brought passionate
weeping through its precious assurance that
she was still beloved. Forgiven ! surely
he could have no doubt of her forgiveness.
The few words were soon written, which
would carry comfort to his heart ; but
these, alas ! were too late to avert a long
and dangerous illness, which took him
almost into the shadow of death.

CHAPTER III.

I will instruct my sorrows to be proud,
For grief is proud."

King John, Act iii., Sc. 1.

If I lose mine honour,
I lose myself."

Ant. and Leo,, Act iii., Sc. 4.

While Editli pitied Lady Wandsworth,
the marriage of the latter had been pronounced
by the world to have been a mistake.
And yet, though the division between
them was very palpable, still neither
husband nor wife had indulged public
curiosity by any loud or passionate scenes.
Their honeymoon had been extended into
a three months' voyage, which embraced

the Mediterranean and all its points of interest,
all famous cities within easy reach,
until they reached Egypt, where they left
the yacht for a time, and proceeded np
the Nile.

They returned home to Wandsworth
Castle the last week in February, and a
grand reception was accorded them. After
a month in the country they went up to
their town house for the season, and Lady
Wandsworth became the fashion. She
was very brilliant, but certainly not a
happy bride.

Though night after night bride and
bridegroom went to grand banquets
or receptions given expressly in their
honour, and were polite to each other,
people knew there was some terrible division
between them.

Not a word of complaint or anger, or
reproach against her husband, did she

speak even to Iter mother, when poor
Lady Charles wistfully met her on her
return. She dared not ask her daughter
if she were happy; it was so plainly visible
to the affectionate, attached mother, that
she was not. Ah ! after parting from
their smiling hosts, and smiling themselves,
 poor hypocrites !  when their
brougham-door closed on them, two
proud, silent people were borne back to
their home  '* home," sweet word ! What
an awful mockery in their case. Whatever
might have been the original cause of
Yenetia's cold, proud indifference, her
husband, before they had been six months
married, gave her painful cause for reproach
; but, whatever she might feel, she
did not accuse him, but proudly held
herself the same as ever to him and to
the world. At times she did hate him,
for it seemed to her as if her contact with

his life had sullied and contaminated her
own.

Long before the time of the Philharmonic
Concert Yenetia had agreed to
accept the inevitable. Once she had had
the hope of maternity, and had grieved
when the hope died, feeling how inexpressibly
dear the sweet young life would
have been to her in her terrible loneliness.
Now she was thankful she was childless 
how could she love the child of such a
father? They generally lived under the
same roof, but their life was completely
apart and divided. They rarely spoke;
they seldom met, except at their dinner-table
when they had guests, or when they
were in the country. Two years earlier
Yenetia would have said so horrible a
state of existence was impossible. She
knew very well that such a disregard
and defiance of the laws of domestic

life were very terrible, indeed almost disgraceful.


She was not free from self-reproach;
she knew that if she had loved her husband
with greater devotion, he, who was most
passionately attached to her at one time,
would have never pained her by his
estrangement and infidelities.

A few weeks before Whitsuntide a certain
Colonel Langton,  Lord Wandsworth's
cousin and heir, if Yenetia had no son, 
returned from India on a two years' furlough,
and, at his kinsman's request, took
up his abode at St. James's Square. Colonel
Langton was in all ways a most charming
man, as well as a very distinguished
soldier. The state of affairs at St. James's
Square pained and astonished this worthy
gentleman. His hostess was frigidly
polite when, they met at dinner the day
of his arrival, and when he was the only

guest. The evident estrangement between
husband and wife made him a very awkward
third. However, he did his best,
and though he could get nothing but
an indifferent bow, or yes and no,
from his hostess, he persisted in rat-thing
on with story after story, feeling
that all the time her gloomy, imperious
eyes were on him, while she was taking
a mental survey of himself and his
character. Dinner was a farce with her.
She was splendidly dressed, and was due
at four grand receptions that night.
When she rose from the table and walked
with easy self-possession from the room,
he, who opened the door for her, was
rewarded by a more courteous bow, and
the colonel thought he had never seen
any woman who so thoroughly came upto
his idea of what a great lady should be
in appearance and manners. Turning

from the door somewhat abruptly lie saw,
with surprise, a change of expression in
his cousin's face, and though the scowl
returned immediately, the colonel learned
that the beautiful wife was dear beyond
measure to the man who had insulted
and outraged her by his conduct. After
some desultory talk, the colonel was
glad when his cousin proposed going into
the drawing-room.

Lady Wandsworth was reading, but
politely prepared to listen to anything her
guest might wish to say. After tea had
been served, the carriage was announced ;
a maid was waiting in the corridor with a
white fur wrap, various powdered lacqueys
were all attention on the staircase and in
the hall when the envied, but most unhappy,
countess came down, attended by
the colonel. Much would he have liked
to accompany this most fascinating

relative, but she made no such friendly
overture, and with a slight but courteous
bow left him there lamenting, while the
carriage flashed away through the half-dark
square.

His cousin proposed going down to the
House of Commons; a great orator was going
to speak that night ; the colonel joyfully assented.
Being a remarkably unworldly and
simple-minded man in some things, he was
not a little astonished at his social popularity,
and found it very pleasant to be feted
after all his hard work and loneliness.
But with the one person with whom he
most wished to be friendly,  to be received
with the frank affection of a near relative, 
he made but little advance. He saw
Venetia distrusted him, and this hurt him ;
evidently she looked on all the Langton
with suspicion or cynical indifference.

The colonel, however, strong in the

integrity of his motives, persevered, and
determined more and more to bring those
two estranged people nearer. Venetia
was too sweet a woman and too real a
lady to remain long cold to so charming
a guest ; gradually the intimacy deepened,
and Lady Wandsworth found the greatest
solace and happiness in his society. He
was a true, manly relative, she felt ; a
gentleman whom she might trust with
her cousinly regard ; some one to whom
she might speak with freedom on any
subject but that which was locked in
her bosom  the difference with her husband.
So it happened that Colonel
Langton grew almost into a necessity
with her; his bright intellect, his pleasant
manners and unselfishness charmed
this most lonely lady, who always remembered
that he was her husband's
cousin.

V()[u III. F

The censorious world, however, took
the baser view of this friendship, and
Yenetia's propriety was questioned. Meanwhile
the proud, innocent woman had
been most kind to Dorcas, introducing
her where her word would have been
a passport to any one. And Dorcas
went from one grand house to the
other, and received such ovations that
a less strong head might have been
turned.

But after her visit to Eastminster, she
had been in a terrible state of anxiety
about her lover, and, strange to say,
Yenetia was the only person who could
give her authentic tidings of the invalid's
state.

Long he hovered on the border-land
between life and death ; and during those
awful hours Dorcas had to sing as if
her heart was not being wrung by the

thought that she might hear he had passed
away from her for ever.

But he lived, and a kind devoted
friend took the sick man away with him
to a quiet spot near Como, where he
remained until he recovered sufficiently
to travel on from place to place.

The very friendly regard Lady Wandsworth
bestowed on her cousin was a
source of the greatest anxiety and unhappiness
to her mother. Lady Charles
Stanley.

Venetia was still in perfect ignorance
of the rumours which were attacking
her reputation; but Lady Charles, much
as she disliked the idea of broaching such
a painful subject, felt that her daughter
ought to know what was being said of her.

Is Colonel Langton always going to
live here, my dear ? " she asked nervously
one day.

E 2

I really don't know ; you lead better
ask Gerald," said she, smiling carelessly.

But, my dear Yenetia, lie is so constantly
with you."

Yes, mother dear, because I find him
a most delightful companion ; he amuses
me."

But is it wise to  to have such a very
delightful companion, my dear? "

*' Mother ! what do you mean ? "

My darling, your intimacy with him is
causing scandal. It is said, oh, Yenetia !
that he is your lover."

And you have believed it ? " she asked,
rising with a certain proud majesty of
offended womanhood.

'' Never, never, my darling 1 "

Then why do you repeat to me such
  such an abominable imputation ? "

'*Do not be angry, my dear."

' Am I to hear calmly that my honouris

attacked ? What have I done that anyone
should dare to speak disrespectfully
of me ? "

My dear child, you have done nothing ;
but the estrangement between your husband
and yourself is, alas ! known, and
that estrangement is sufficient to give the
malicious a terrible power for inventing
scandal. Yenetia, what is it that keeps
you asunder ? "

"Don't ask me; the quarrel lies
between him and me; it is sacred.
Mother, mother, you know I am unhappy."


Then the proud woman suddenly broke
down and sobbed the terrible sobs of an
unspeakable grief, as she knelt by her
mother's side.

Oh, my darling, not there ; pray

rise."

No, no ; I am proud and self-sufficient

elsewhere ; let me kneel to you who are so
good ! "

Venetia, what can I do for you ? "

Nothing."

I do not ask your confidence, dearest,
but hear me a moment. If the fault ot
your separation lies with him, you know 
you know it is your duty, your privilege,
to forgive him, and to use every endeavour
to win him back to you. If the fault is
yours, my darling, amend it, and never
rest until you possess your husband's
forgiveness, if you would be a happy
woman. Think how terrible these unhappy
rumours are to your father and
to me  to hear it said that you, my dearest
child, are failing in your most sacred
duties, and to feel that you are in a
great measure alienated from me after all
our close and loving intimacy ever since
you came to girlhood."

Alienated from you ? Oh, no, no ; it
is all altered. Don't sou understand ? I
have passed into another life. But I
long for your love and sympathy more
than ever  only I must not, I cannot,
ask it, dearest mother."

Are we to be for ever separated,
Yenetia ? "

'' I don't know," said the lovely
woman, languidly rising now the storm
of passion was spent.

'' Ah ! if I might ask you one question,"
exclaimed her unhappy mother.

No, ask me nothing," she returned
gloomily.

'you will  you will be less friendly
with Colonel Langton ? "

''No, why should I be?"

"It is your duty to withdraw from a
friendship if it is misconstrued."

Pardon me, I think differently. To

change my bearing to him would be to
admit there was truth in the base insinuation.
I will live the scandal down. Why
should I give up my friend when his
society makes life more bearable?" she
said proudly.

My dear, your husband should be your
nearest friend."

It was evident that Lady Wandsworth
refrained with difficulty from some passionate
reply; however, she did refrain,
but there was an expression of such
anger and scorn on her face that her
mother learned something of the perpetual
inner conflict of her life.

Yenetia, I am your mother; I have the
right to tell you that you are pursuing a
course that is wrong, fatally wrong. You
may be safe  I mean you may be in
Colonel Langton's society without being
more than his sincere friend  but have

you considered that with him it may be
otherwise ? "

"Men are not so susceptible as you
think," she said scornfully.

'' Few men could resist your charm,
even when they are loyal in their intentions;
therefore be merciful. Surely I
shall never have to think my daughter
a coquette ! "

You prejudge me."

No, no, my dear ; but you seem so
hard, so determined, you frighten me. I
thought you would have immediately seen
the peril in which you stand ; and now
you tell me you are determined to brave
the world ! A man may be strong
enough to set domestic laws at defiance,
a woman never. My child, my darling,
won't you be persuaded by me? Turn
back before the inevitable bitter consequences
follow your rashness."

Why will you so misconstrue me ? I
have no thought of any possible wrong.
I merely say I will not give up a friendship
which is perfectly innocent and of
great comfort to me," she returned
haughtily, though deeply touched by her
mother's entreaties and tenderness.

Then I must leave you, Venetia, having
failed in my mission, and feeling infinitely
more unhappy about you than when I
came. You know we go to Longford next
week ; will not you accompany us ? I am
sure Lord Wandsworth would like you to

go."

*' You think such an arrangement would
effectually separate me from Colonel Langton?"
she said with a smile.

'' Yes ; I should feel you were safe with
me."

'' It is impossible ; I have engagements
to the first week in August."

Lady Charles rose, and, taking her
daughter's hands, looked with an infinite
lose and sadness into the beautiful face.

''My darling," she almost whispered,
surely I shall never regret that you were
spared to me years ago ?  surely I shall
never wish you had died in your innocence
?"

My greatest wound is your doubt of
me," she murmured, meeting her mother's
anxious eyes with an unspeakable reproach
in her own.

*' I will never doubt you more, for I
believe, with all your unhappy division,
you love your husband, and that love will
be your safeguard."

Yenetia said nothing to her mother's
last words, which were almost in the form
of a question. But the question whether
she loved or hated her husband was one
she could never satisfactorily answer to

herself. She came to the conclusion that
there was much of each feeling, and that
they predominated in turn with the course
of events.

Venetia, am I to leave you without a
word of affection ? "

Trust me, and do not be too unhappy
about me."

And then her displeasure vanished, and a
sudden softness came upon her, as she tenderly
embraced her mother, who, still only
half-convinced, left her very sorrowfully.

This interview occurred at the end of
June. Hurt as she was in the tenderest
point of her pride, Lady Wandsworth, if
anything, rather increased than diminished
her intimacy with Colonel Langton. In
truth the anger caused by the misconstruction
put upon her very innocent
liking for him made her much more
reckless and defiant than she had been.

She despised the scandal; she would
live it down. But lately she had been
much surprised by Lord Wandsworth's
very quietly joining her and his cousin,
and constituting himself her escort. No
word did he speak, however, or give any
hint that he desired his cousin's absence.
It flashed upon her that he had heard the
rumours, and that he, never doubting her,
yet wished chivalrously to give her the
protection of his presence. In no way
could he have touched her more.

Some of those bitter results which her
mother had predicted occurred at the end
of the season, just before they left for
Scotland. Three weeks previously she
had issued invitations to a grand concert,
at which Dorcas was to take a principal
part. It almost killed this proud woman
to find that half of her invitations were
declined, and that the refusals came from

those whose friendship and whose good
opinion had ever been until then her
undoubted possession. So the concert
took place, but the room was only partially
filled. A few months back how different
would have been the result of her invitations
! Then it would have been
almost impossible to find room for the
eager crowd of guests. The hostess, as
she gloomily listened to the exquisite
music, realized with much bitterness that
her mother had been right in foreseeing
this humiliation, and that she had been too
rash.

During the performance the earl just
looked in, and, seeing the empty places,
smiled sardonically, curled his mustachios,
and put up his eye-glass to criticize the
lovely Dorcas when she was singing. He
was fond of music, and really possessed
taste. He highly appreciated Dorcas,

and when she had finished gave a more
hearty expression of thanks than the
languid, cynical nobleman often indulged
in. Indeed, he seemed in high good
humour; perhaps he enjoyed his wife's
mortification. At any rate he had seldom
talked so much as he did at his own table
that night, surprising others besides
Yenetia, whose dark eyes only expressed
gloom and hauteur.

Colonel Langton had not dined with
them ; and when Yenetia, wearied and
disgusted with herself and the world in
general, was just going to her room, she
was rather surprised to see him come into
the drawing-room. Ordinarily she would
not have been surprised, but this night
there was that about him which shocked
and alarmed her. Would she ever forget
the suffering, the remorse, portrayed on
his fine face ?

*' Lady Wandsworth, may I detain you
a few minutes ? It is to say good-bye."

*' Are you leaving us, then ? "

Yes, tomorrow."

I am sorry ; it is sudden."

Do you know wliy I am leaving ? "

"Yes."

I would have given my life for your
happiness ; but I have only learned to-day
how terribly our friendship has been misconstrued
by a too censorious, cruel
world. To say more would be a desecration.
Can you forgive me ? "

'' I have nothing to forgive."

"Except that I have dared to love
you. I know too late the bitter truth."

Colonel Langton, you  you forget ! "
she said, deadly pale.

No, dear Lady Wandsworth, I remember
you are my cousin's wife, and,
therefore sacred. After to-niofht I shall

never see you again. You are too innocent
and brave to heed this miserable scandal.
May I say one last word, though I may
touch a wound ? Your husband is yearning
for a complete reconciliation  "

Sir ! why do you dare ? "

*' Because your happiness is so precious
to me, and I know you can only find it in
your husband's love. Ah ! forgive me.
When your life is bright and blessed with
tender ties, you will perhaps sometimes remember
the lonely soldier, who will always
be thankful that he met you, though you
were for ever lost to him."

When Yenetia was again alone she
remembered her mother's entreaties, and
felt she deserved the grief and humiliation
that overwhelmed her. . . .

The next morning was the 1st of
August. The session was a protracted
one ; weary statesmen of both Houses were

VOL. III. G

longing for their rest amidst their mountains,
lochs, or moors, or in the Alpine
passes, or by Italian lakes. In two days
the Wandsworth household would move,
first to the castle, and then to delightful
Scotland for grouse-shooting and deer-stalking.
That morning Yenetia received
the following note : 

Travellers' Club, Fall Mall,

'* Dear Lady Wandsworth,

'' Can you receive a weary traveller
tomorrow, about four o'clock, before he is
again on the wing ?

*' Yours most truly,

Hubert J. Maynard."

She sat with the note in her hand in
deep thought. Could she bear another
interview, shaken and distressed as she
was by the unexpected disclosure of the
previous night ? She looked troubled and
weary, and her eyes were not so fearless

as they once had been. She wondered
rather what might be the object of his
visit ; but it was probably connected in
some way with Dorcas, and perhaps his
conversation would turn her sad thoughts
into another and happier channel.

At four Maynard was with her, looking
very sunburnt, and quite recovered from
his illness, but showing a certain wistful -
ness in his dark eyes. She met him with
a sweet smile, and her smile was very
beautiful ; but there was no agitation, no
arrive pense in her manner, though she
did not attempt to conceal her languor and
weariness. Maynard thought he had never
seen her more attractive ; and, next to
Dorcas, of all living people Lady Wandsworth
lay nearest his heart. Her unhappiness
had given him many a restless, painful
hour, but he had never imagined it would
be possible for her to give occasion for any
G 2

scandalous remark. Great Heaven ! could
this proud, delicate woman, with those
calm, grave eyes, be aware of the cruel
scandal which had attached itself to her
name ? He felt the blood flushing his
brow with shame at the thought. Venetia's
honour to be questioned !

I am very glad to see you looking so
well, Hubert ; you must know how very
thankful we are for your recovery."

I never felt better in my life, thank

you."

You have returned rather earlier than
you expected, have you not ? "

Not much ; you see I really have no
right to be regarded as an invalid now,"
he said, smiling.

'' I suppose your plans for the future are
still in the same unsatisfactory state ? "
she asked kindly.

Yes ; because, unhappily, Dorcas asks

an impossibility. You know mj uncle will
never consent ; besides lie is bound by an
absurd promise to her father."

'rit is hard for you, Hubert. I am
very sorry for you. But I suppose most
things are at cross-purposes in this
world."

The conversation flagged. She was too
utterly sad, too preoccupied to be equal
to much talking. Moreover, she remembered
a conversation she had had with her
visitor when she was in the heyday of her
vanity. Her very words came back to her.
She was tired of her crumpled rose-leaves.
She wished to try a few thorns
by way of diversion."

I hear you have formed a new friendship
with a charming man  Colonel Langton
 since I have seen you."

He did not look at her, and he was vexed
to hear his voice rather faltering.

'* Yes, I have been very friendly with
Colonel Langton. I have found his society
extremely pleasant."

Does lie accompany you to Scotland
? ''

No. I believe lie is returning to India
very shortly."

There was a cold hauteur in her tone
that made him aware he was trenching on
dangerous ground. And in a moment she
realized that he had heard the rumours,
and that this was the reason of his sudden
return. She felt herself colouring with
anger. How was it her dearest friends
seemed so determined to wound her  first
her mother, and now Maynard?

I suppose you are going to Carrington
? " she said coldly.

Yes, I think so,"  absently.

Lady Wandsworth, you seem offended
at something I said just now. It would

grieve me inexpressibly to offend you in
any way, for next to Dorcas you are dearer
to me than any one else in the world, and
the question of your happiness must ever
lie very near my heart ; but, dear Yenetia,
it is more than whispered that you are
very unhappy."

'' Captain Maynard ! are you not exceeding
your privileges ? "

'' I may be, but I cannot remain mute.
Forgive me if I wound you. You seem
to be in great trouble. It is not my
province to ask what that trouble is. I do
not dare to touch upon the cause ; that
would be to insult you. But, dear Lady
Wandsworth, if in any way I can lessen
your trouble, you will surely not disdain
the help of such an old friend as myself? "

*' I appreciate your motives ; but, believe
me, I require no help."

Help her ! Who could help her ? " she

thought, with a terrible despair, for just
then the whole fatality and wrong-doing
of her marriage weighed her spirit down
into the dust.

Could the unhappy lady tell Maynard,
or any one, that from sheer weariness 
sheer disgust at her own life  she had
cultivated a friendship which, until the
previous night, she had thought perfectly
innocent ? She said she required no help,
for no one could help her to undo the
wrong she had caused blindly to Colonel
Langton  a man so kindly, so honourable,
who had thought in his integrity that he
might win the husband to the wife, the wife
to the husband, and then had felt, himself,
all the terrible fatal power of the woman
who had unbent to him in her gracious
beautiful womanhood. How well she remembered
saying to her companion that
she hoped to find a greater power and

usefulness in lier life from her marriage !
Alas ! was not this moment of bitter humiliation
the culmination of irony on those
words and wishes of hers ? Usefulness !
When her heart beat with rebellious shame
and anger  when, perhaps, her own well-trained,
respectful servants were her
judges, and deemed her a guilty woman !
Her punishment for the first false step of
loveless vows to a husband was great
indeed.

'' Then we are to be comparative
strangers after our warm friendship ? "
said Maynard sorrowfully.

You know we can never be anything
less than friends ; but in some troubles
even a dear friend's help is impossible.
I think you understand me, Hubert."

Yes, only too well. Then I must
leave you like this  my sympathy rejected
 "

*' No, no," lie said rising ; " pray
believe low much I feel your sympathy,
though I cannot confide any of my  "

Here she stopped abruptly, and her lip
quivered.

*' This is dreadful," he said passionately.
I will not leave you without speaking,
even if I offend you. Are you blind
to your husband's attachment to you?
Tell me, why should the world dare
to remark on your unhappiness, when 
when you might be so happy ? I dare not
say all that is in my heart; but I do
entreat you to remember what I said just
now. Surely that one truth would soften
any woman's anger. Will you not make
some effort to end the estrangement, or
are you too proud to own that you, too,
have been wrong ? Will you not unbend a
little to him whom you have sworn to
obey, who is the ruler of your life ? I

believe lie is ready to meet you more than
half-way. Remember, dear, lie is your
husband  a relationship wbicb ought to
be the nearest, the dearest in the world ?
Dear, dear Yenetia," and now in his
pleading he had taken her hands in his,
while she stood deadly pale, her head a little
drooping, and tears falling slowly from her
eyes, '' think how terrible it would be if
he died before you were reconciled ; then
indeed you could never be happy again.
Surely I have not spoken in vain. Surely
you will remember your duty and all the
solemn vows which bind you to him, and
then, and then only will you find happiness.
I leave you with  "

Just then the door opened, and Lord
"Wandsworth came in.

Even through her tears Venetia saw the
spasm of deadly suspicion which crossed
his face as he advanced.

I was not aware you had a visitor,"
he said coldly.

Maynard gently relinquished her hands,
feeling there was enough in the situation
to warrant any husband's jealousy; but,
conscious that his motives were only loyal
to Lord Wandsworth, he said, 

My visit is a flying one. I came expressly
to see Lady Wandsworth. If in
the urgency of the subject, and through
excess of friendship, I have presumed to say
too much, I trust she will forgive me."

I have nothing to forgive, but much
to thank you for. Good-bye."

Lord Wandsworth was well versed in
tender scenes. At the first moment an
awful suspicion crossed his mind ; but
Maynard's fearless, honest look to himself
immediately explained the whole scene,
which was still further explained by his
subsequent words. Lord Wandsworth felt

a kind of admiration and liking for him,
and he said a few words to him before
he went, with a courtesy which possessed
a rare charm. He knew perfectly well,
without being told, that Maynard, out of
the truest, manliest regard, had been expostulating
with his wife.

When the door closed on the visitor.
Lord Wandsworth returned to his position
on the hearth-rug, and with his eye-glass
fixed in his eye directed his attention to
Yenetia, who also remained standing. She
was still extremely pale. She brushed the
tears away lightly with her handkerchief,
and waited with the expression of an
immeasurable sadness, indeed almost despair,
for what he might say.

The tableau I interrupted was very
pretty and effective. May I ask what
particular scene you were rehearsing?" he
said coldly.

No answer.

Men show their good taste in admiring
you, Yenetia ; for you are certainly a very
beautiful woman."

Looking up, lie met his glance of careless,
insolent admiration, and she coloured,
deeply hurt with the offence in his look.

'' How the world must envy me for
possessing such a beautiful wife, so perfect
in all wifely virtues, so obedient to her
husband's commands, so wedded to his
interests, so  "

'' Doubtless her husband's virtues are
greater than her own ! "

''A man may do anything, a woman
nothing."

'' Yes, that is the cruel code. A woman
is expected to bear uncomplainingly insult
and un faith  "

If I am a bad husband, I am what you
have made me."

What I laye made you ! "  with bitter
scorn.

' Yes. I swear when I married you I
meant to reform. I was tired of the old
state of things. . I wished to be a better
man," he said earnestly. '' I had long
thought of you ; you possessed all those
qualifications I deemed necessary in a wife.
I say that in marrying me, when you loved
ah ! and love still  the man who has just
left you"

No, no, Gerald, I do not love him
now ! " she exclaimed, with a sweet,
appealing look which ought to have convinced
him that at length it was he
himself whom she loved.

I say you wronged and insulted me.
I found out too late that I was only the
means of gratifying your ambition  that I
was a miserable dupe ; and then, as you
know, my love changed, and I frightened

you, I daresay, for I felt as if I was
possessed with a devil. You know I loved
you. I gave you my all  my life. What
did you give me ? "

"Is it too late now for me to  ? " she
faltered.

'' To be what I thought you were ? Yes,
quite too late, for I imagined then I might
win your love. But that is all past now.
Since then we have gone our own ways. I
have given you perfect liberty of action,
and the result is, that I am told you are
about to elope with my cousin. As you
bear my name, I must ask you to be more
discreet in your conduct. As our estrangement
is notorious, it is highly undesirable
that you should admit any man to the
intimacy you have allowed Langton, for
people will instantly assume he is your
lover. I know all that is said about you
is mere idle gossip ; but, at the same tient

is infernally unpleasant to hear. I know
you are much too proud and too pure a
woman to go wrong, but  if you ever did
listen to a man  there would be a new
tragedy of Othello and Desdemona. Do
you understand ? " he said, in a low tone,
breathing of terrible slumbering passion,
while the gloom and something else in
his eyes made her tremble with deadly
fear.

After a pause he said politely, 

'' I think we perfectly understand each
other now."

'perfectly," she replied faintly, overborne
by his power and command, but
feeling the assurance that his passion
would not be so terrible unless his love
were equally great.

I presume Langton will not go to
Scotland with us ? "

Certainly not."

VOL. in. H

* Oh, by the bye, will you write and ask
Colonel and Mrs. Anderson to join us on
the eleventh at Gartna Sherry ? I asked
him the other day, but of course his wife
will expect a note from you."

'' I cannot receive Mrs. Anderson," she
said, looking down and blushing deeply.

Why not ? "

"It is enough that I cannot receive
her."

"You must receive her,"  and a dark
flush stained his brow.

"I cannot."

Are you yourself so immaculate that
you should throw a stone at her ? "

I am perfectly innocent of all disloyalty
to you."

'' Do you deny that you love Maynard
? "

Yes, I do deny it," she said very
earnestly, and drawing herself up proudly,

as she met her husband's piercing, though
melancholy glance.

'* Do you deny that, even with your
vows upon your lips to me, you knew the
other man was dearest to you ? "

I did love him very dearly. We had
always been together. I thought wrongly
I might make you happy. He came today
expressly to tell me of the rumours
you know of ; when you saw him holding
my hands, he was entreating me to  to  ' '

'' To what ? "

"To try to win back your love ; " and
again her voice faltered, and her colour
deepened, and she looked charming to the
man who read wrongly all these signs of
embarrassment.

You will invite Mrs. Anderson at
once," he said coldly.

I really cannot ; but leave me at Longford,
and then  "

H 2

** It is quite impossible ; you must receive
mj guests yourself."

'' I will never receive Mrs. Anderson,"
she said very haughtily.

Then you must leave my house," he
said slowly.

Have you any right to send me from
you on such a pretext ? " she asked very
pale.

Every right ; my will should be your
law."

I cannot obey you in that matter. I
will leave you to-day."

"It is an unfortunate time for you to
leave," he said, with cruel deliberation.
People will say you have forfeited your
right to be here."

They may say what they will. I  I
am innocent," she said hurriedly, and
feeling only too truly the force of what he
said.

"Where do you propose going ?  to your
father's ? "

I don't know where I can go ; but
does it matter, if you drive me forth ? "

You know the alternative."

Rather than accept it, I will leave you
for ever."

'' That is all that need be said, then. I
suppose you wish for a separation ? "

All this time she had been standing ;
now she suddenly felt weak and helpless,
because her courage was gone.

Alas ! everything was going from her,
husband, home, name, and fame. Should
she avert the calamity by accepting his
hard terms ?  a thousand times no.

He was keenly watching her. When he
saw her trembling weariness, he went to
her, giving her his hand as a support until
she was seated. While he was telling her
that she must leave him, he felt that he had

never loved her with so tender and overpowering
a passion. He knew she was true,
but lie was torn with wild jealousy and despair,
because she was alienated from him.

Separate from her ? Never ! He marvelled
at her sweetness and strange
humility.

Receive Mrs. Anderson ! How could
she? Bat he had tried to insult her, to
drive her to extremities, and now he had
succeeded, more completely than he had
wished.

*' A separation? " she repeated faintly.

Would you not be happier if altogether
away from me ? '' he said bitterly.

'' It is too late to talk of my happiness.
Can I go to the cottage in Devonshire ? "

Certainly ; but pray remain here until
some arrangements are made for your
comfort."

"My comfort! Does it matter? "she

exclaimed, with almost despair, as she
again rose and went to him. '' Before I
leave yon, I inst ask your forgiveness for
one thing : I am only too conscious that I
did you a great wrong in marrying you.
Had I loved you more, I should not have
failed in my duty. We have both something
to forgive, have we not?" and the
proud, unhappy woman looked up beseechingly
into his face.

Love urged him to take her to his heart,
but pride let the moment of reconciliation
pass. And all the time, with his stern,
cold expression, he was thinking with
amazement that never before had she
besought him with those beautiful eyes,
never before acknowledged that she had
been wrong. On the contrary, she had
exasperated him by her scorn, her coldness,
her contempt.

Good-bye," she said at length, after

waiting vainly for some words from

him.

His arms were folded across this chest,

and lie made no sign of giving her his

hand, as he too muttered, 

'' Good-bye."

Then, with her bosom disturbed by rising
sobs, she quietly left him.

And when he looked round the magnificent
room, he realized how blank and cold
it would be without her graceful presence.
Even in her proudest, most defiant moods,
he had liked to see her there ; and now,
drawn to her as he had never felt before,
and hungering for her esteem, her regard,
her love, he had sent her away ! The idle
threat of a moment had been accepted by
her as a terrible reality. In his power
how cruel he had been to her. Why
was she so changed ? Was her unhappiness
at length making her turn to him ?

The thought filled him with a rapturous

joy-venetia,

shocked and despairing, locked
herself in her room. For a few minutes
she could not check her hysterical passion,
for during the last twenty-four hours she
had suffered acutely. Her present position
was 'an awful one. To be sent from her
husband's home when such a base, cruel
imputation was resting upon her ! Would
not one and all assume she was guilty, and
unite in condemning her ? She had said in
her proud virtue that she would despise
the scandal and live it down ; but now, from
her husband's unjust decision, it would
overwhelm her with ruin.

Suddenly she felt she could not bear it.
She must appeal to him, though her pride
rebelled against any such appeal.

She had already entreated his forgiveness,
but he had continued sternly mute.

She had told him again and again that the
original cause of their division no longer
existed; but he had received her solemn
assertion with cold incredulity. Would
he never forgive her  never believe her ?
"Was she to make the first advance towards
their reconciliation, to be again coldly-rejected
? Why was he so stern, when
a little softness, a little tenderness, would
have brought her with passionate penitence
to his feet ? But he only reproached
her and laid commands upon her, which
were so abhorrent to her dignity and her
womanhood that she could not possibly
obey them, and the alternative was her
own undoing. He could not love her ; it
seemed rather that he was taking the most
terrible revenge possible for her one
fault. The separation involved another
question, one which she would allow
hardly even to herself had any weight ; it

was that in the future lie could be nothing
but a stranger to her husband, when for
months she had been longing to be forgiven.
Then came the thought of her
mother's anguish,  of the stain which
would rest on her family. And yet could
she again sue for peace ? An hour had
passed, but she found it impossible to decide
on what she must do.

The carriage had been announced as
waiting to take her for her customary drive
in the park; but no Lady Wandsworth
appeared that day to the disappointed
crowds, who were waiting to see her, and
to whom she had grown morbidly interesting,
since she was supposed to be wicked.
Twice she went to the door of her room,
and twice she retreated, murmuring, 
No, I cannot,  to be again disdained."
Another hour passed, when she resolutely
opened her door, and passed downstairs

to the library, where she knocked
gently, and then entered. Lord Wandsworth
was writing letters, and by his side lay a
miniature of a lovely woman. It represented
the wife he was so torturing. The
miniature had been painted in Paris a
few weeks after their marriage. Almost
timidly she approached him, but was a
little reassured by a something new 
something she had been yearning for  in
his stern face. He laid a sheet of writing-paper
over the miniature, half smiling ashe
did so.

Did you want me ?" he said politely,
as he rose, though he restrained with difficulty
the impulse to take her to his heart ;
but no, the play must be played out ; it
was right she should solicit his forgiveness
with humility.

Will you allow me to stay here until
the cottage is ready ? "

Certainly, I have no wish to hurry
you. I shall leave tomorrow myself."

Still she lingered, and she was very, very
pale.

Must I go ? " she exclaimed almost
involuntarily.

Searchingly did he look into her beautiful
sad face, and he read there a truth
of which she herself had only lately
become conscious.

It rests entirely with yourself," he
said still coldly, though his heart was
throbbing from excess of happiness.

'* No, you ask me to do the most
repugnant thing possible to a woman. If
you loved me you could not so insult me 
so degrade me," she said passionately.
If you send me from you, if you separate
me from yourself, you  you will be very
cruel ; for just now I have hardly a friend
in the world."

That is not so ; you "have the strongest,
most faithful friend in me, your husband,
if  you will return to your duty, Venetia."

Her duty ! She knew how much lay
comprised in that one word. She must
forgive her wrongs ; she must again submit
to his commands. For a minute or two
her pride, her offended dignity, struggled
against her inclination to end the long
separation. But the attraction to him
grew stronger with each moment of
hesitation. She was so conscious of her
weakness, her loneliness ; she wished for
his strong protection, more for his love,
and for his complete trust and forgiveness.
Then came the full revelation that she
loved him.

My life is yours," she said, trembling
much, while he gently drew her to his
heart, in this the deepest and sweetest
surrender of her life.

I cannot receive Mrs. Anderson," she
said anxiously.

I shall never ask you to receive her
now," he returned with a smile.

And Yenetia, with her head on his
breast, felt she had at length found the
surest haven of rest.

Chapter IV.

Were beauty under twenty locks kept fast,
Yet love breaks through, and picks them all at last."

Venus and Adonis.

 So are you to my thoughts, as food to life."

Shakespeare, Sonnet 74.

We laye so me what anticipated events
after Dorcas had made her very successful
d4hut as a professional singer at Eastminster,
in May, when she had spent two
most delightful days at the farm. Her fame
had preceded her, and her parents were
extremely pleased and gratified. Never
had the country looked so lovely to her.
The air was fragrant from the blossoming
trees and shrubs on all sides. Little of

lier time did she waste in sleep,  lingering
late amongst the sweet flowers in the
garden, and listening to the exquisite
songs of birds all around her. One day
at home, and one day with Edith at the
Hall. How they all feted her ! and how
loth she was to leave them and to return
even to success ! She had been up to that
date ignorant of Captain Maynard's illness.
On the vexed subject of her promise she
thought after reflection she had better
remain silent. Her speaking to her father
would only make him unhappy unnecessarily,
and in speaking at all she must confide
more of her lover's affairs than would
be prudent. Again she began to rejoice in
her life ; for at length she was independent.
Oh ! the sweetness of those first earnings,
when she held some nice, clean, crisp
Bank of England notes in her hand, which
notes Mr. Hartley had given her with some

VOL. III. I

pretty compliments ! These, the firstfruits,
could only be given to one person, and
she was impatient indeed until that person
possessed them. She had been at the
Hall but a few minutes when, with some
agitation, she put them in Edith's hand.

"You won't refuse me, Edith. It is the
first money I have ever earned  my firstfruits
 and  and I owe it all to you, a
thousand times."

Edith's eyes filled.

I think it would be the most precious
gift I ever received, but I cannot take it,
dearest Dorcas ; let your father have the
firstfruits."

In this you come before my father.
Don't refuse me."

Then divide your gift between us ;
that is best. Ah ! how often I shall look
at this and treasure it, for it is a sacred
memento of a success which came out of

a great trouble. So our days are fashioned
for us. Let us be thankful for the accomplishment
of your wishes. And you are
happy, Dorcas, and content to wait fora
still greater happiness ? " said Edith
wistfully. . . .

And did the countess really go to the
Bull ' and ask you to have lunch at the
castle, my dear ? " said her father. '' Well,
now, I really can't understand it  and
she, the noblest, grandest, beautifully
lady I ever saw; and the earl so proud,
prouder than the duke, if it comes to
that ! Well, it altogether passes my judgment,
that my daughter should be asked
to the castle, now."

The bouquets which Dorcas had brought
in a hamper proved a source of much
wonder and pride to these simple, worthy
people. All were left at the farm except
Yenetia's ; that was kept as a relic, and
I 2

perhaps exists still amongst the mementos
of Dorcas's professional life.

Of course the grim Sarah and Hephzibah
formed a friendship on the spot. London-bred
Sarah thought the farm a veritable
paradise, and wonderingly admired everything.
But, reluctant as mistress and maid
were, they were obliged to return to their
duties on the third morning. They
certainly did not return empty-handed.

Early was the good mother up, superintending
the packing of sundry young
chickens, a ham and eggs for kind Madame
Saroni, and also a supply of good things
for Dorcas, who had now arrived at the
dignity of being a housekeeper on her own
account.

Reuben had dined and spent the day
with her, and poor Reuben was more in
love than ever.

Dorcas was very much at home at the

old house at Fulham. It was somewhat
out of the world, and the busy hum of life
was distant, while the spacious garden still
produced some flowers.

The only other lodger in the house was
Monsieur Suverneau, an old Frenchman,
who taught the violin ; a very harmless
old gentleman, who delighted to walk in
the garden of an evening, when Dorcas was
performing wondrous shakes and runs with
her lovely voice.

Monsieur would take his cigarette from
his lips, and exclaim in his native tongue, 
It is surely an angel from heaven ! "
Occasionally monsieur would present
mademoiselle with a beautiful rose, which
the old man had been at some trouble
to procure, offering the flower with profound
bows and many pretty words in
French, to which Dorcas would gracefully
reply in the same language.

By degrees she made her old-fashioned,
low-ceiling rooms look very pretty, but
she soon found she had little time to spare ;
so full of engagements were her days and
nights that she seemed to have passed into
another state of existence. Then came
the painful news of Captain Maynard's
illness, which caused her great disquietude.
Indeed, her anxiety when her lover was at
the very crisis of his illness was terrible,
and the strain of anxious suspense almost
more than she could bear. However, as
we already know, his attack took a favourable
turn. The knowledge that she had
room for hope filled her with an immense
thankfulness.

When later on Dorcas received a note
from Mr. Hartley, asking her to take the
duties of second soprano at the coming
festival at Eastminster, she felt she had
reached the height of her ambition. But

when she received a few weeks later a letter
from Lady Wandsworth, asking her to stay
at the castle during the festival-week, she
was doubly elated. She immediately accepted
the kind and thoughtful invitation.

During August she had, with some
musical friends, been singing at various
fashionable sea-side resorts, amongst
others Scarborough.

What an alteration in her circumstances
in two years ! she thought, as she pensively
revisited some of their favourite spots.
She found her provincial round of engagements
very charming; it was a most
agreeable way of seeing the country, and
as yet she knew very little of England.
But at length the greatest event of her life
arrived.

When she and her good duenna reached
the fine old city, on the evening of the
Saturday preceding the festival, she remembered

with what different sensations
she had entered that station five months
previously : then an untried neophyte,
now a singer who had won fame and
position. She could not resist feeling a
certain elation ; and the mere fact that
she was going as a guest to the castle was
very pleasant. She was no sycophant, but
she was nevertheless fully aware that Lady
Wandsworth was showing her rare honour
and consideration in receiving her as a
personal friend. So when the train slowly
drew up, she was in a state of happy
anticipation.

On the platform a tall footman was
waiting, who presently came ap to Dorcas,
and said, touching his hat, 

Miss Finch, I believe ? ''

Soon she was in the comfortable
brougham and travelling rapidly towards
the castle, in the quiet September evening.

To be feted by great people was, just
then, no novelty ; for the last three months
she had received so much attention that
sometimes, perhaps, it was difficult to
remember she was Dorcas Finch; butin
coming home to her own county, she
did most thoroughly remember it, and
doubly felt the distinction and kindness
Lady Wandsworth was showing her.

It was about seven o'clock when she
reached the magnificent castle, Avhose
windows were flashing with lights and
welcome ; and so our heroine passed into
the warmth of the great hall, where
wondrous beautiful works of art charmed
the eye, from thence into the library, which
was softly lighted by the fading daylight
and a blazing wood fire, which sent forth
ruddy flashes of light over the groups of
people around it.

The countess met her guest with almost

affectionate welcome, and her husband
made some pretty and appropriate little
speech ; and then there were other people
to shake hands with, whom Dorcas
already knew. It was certainly somewhat
of an ordeal ; but it was impossible not to
feel almost immediately at home, there
was such an air of perfect ease and
friendliness about Lady Wandsworth's
guests.

Dorcas was charmed with the picturesque
grouping of the people in the
immense room. The men were all in
shooting-dress, and the ladies in their
bonnets or hats, as they had returned from
walking or driving. Just as she was
getting perfectly at home, the first 
rang, and there was a general
move.

Yenetia allowed all her guests to go off,
one after another, until she was alone with

Dorcas. And, when alone, she felt a tinge
of embarrassment, for Dorcas was indirectly
connected with the two most
painful days of her life.

The last time they had met had been at
the concert which had proved such a
failure and humiliation to Yenetia  the
same night occurred the unhappy episode
of Colonel Langton's farewell. The remembrance
of the anguish she had endured
then, and during the subsequent hours,
before her reconciliation with her husband,
had still power to banish the colour from
her cheek. Her slight embarrassment
made her manner more distant and stately ;
and, though Dorcas quite understood the
reason, she yet felt for a moment that
Yenetia was indeed the Countess of
Wandsworth.

I am very glad you were able to come
here," said the hostess kindly, though remembering

that interview with Dorcas in
May, when she had unwisely worn her
heart upon her sleeve.

'' It was so extremely kind of you to
ask me here*'

I have a surprise for you ; I trust it
will be a pleasant one. When Captain
Maynard heard you were coming, he wrote
to ask if he might come, too. He said
he must see you, and that there could be
no harm if he met you here."

Is Captain Maynard here now ? ''
asked Dorcas, very pale.

Yes, he came this morning. Have I
done wrong, Dorcas ? "

'' I promised my father, two years ago,
I would not meet him. Oh, Lady Wandsworth,
what can I do ? ''

I see no harm in your meeting, but I
am sorry I have made you break your
promise to your father. You must tell

him Slow it was. Don't look so disquieted,
dear. It is too late to prevent
your meeting now, and I think sou may
feel yourself very safe under my roof,"
and she unbent into a sweet smile, as she
kissed her troubled guest.

'there's the second bell; you must be
expeditious in dressing; come with me,
and I will take you to your room. I am
so glad to see you as my guest, dear
Dorcas," she said, again smiling, just
before she left Dorcas in a pretty room,
very near her own.

Nothing ever disturbed the serene Sarah
Perkins. There she was, as orderly, as methodical
as ever, with everything arranged
preparatory to dressing her young mistress.

While she was brushing out Dorcas's
soft, abundant, bronze-coloured hair, she
was rather curious as to the cause of her
pallor and the anxious look in her eyes.

But she made no comment, but went on
with her work, coiling the hair into a
graceful knot, which, with some sprays of
delicate flowers and ferns, made the lovely
head more lovely still. These flowers had
been sent to her by her thoughtful hostess.
Jewels she had now,  gifts from grand
lady-patronesses, who delighted to adorn
her fresh young beauty. She had taken
care to provide herself with dresses suitable
for the society she was to meet during
her brief visit; and rarely had any girl
been more tastefully dressed than she
was that night. She had seldom felt so
nervous ; she had again and again stood
before great audiences alone, to be
criticized ; but this was something different
 there was something more of the
personal element in it. She must prove
to-night whether she might, from her own
personal and mental "possessions," pass

into this society and be received as a
member of it. Lie was dressed, ready
to go down ; but, instead of going, lie
stood irresolute, looking at herself in the
long cheval glass, and wondering if that
beautiful woman was herself.

It's late. Miss Dorcas ; I think you'd
better go," said Sarah. '' I never saw
you look so well, miss," holding the door
open.

Dorcas drew a long breath, and joined
some other ladies who were going downstairs;
they kindly waited for her a
moment, and, though surprised by her
loveliness, were too well bred to make her
conscious of it. The kindness of these
ladies saved her from the dreadful ordeal
of entering that great drawing-room, now
nearly filled with people, alone. But,
though so happily convoyed, she was extremely
pale, feeling as if she could

scarcely breathe, and fearing she must
instantly be face to face with Captain
Maynard. But she safely reached a
lounge without encountering: him, and
almost immediately Lady Wandsworth,
who looked radiantly happy, was by her
side with a gentleman who was distinguished
by his extreme plainness of
feature, but who was, nevertheless, a
great favourite with all women, and indeed
with all nice men, too.

'' Dorcas, Colonel Verney has particularly
requested me to introduce him to
you. I am going to give you into his
charge while you are here. He is one of
my oldest friends, and I am afraid will
tell you endless stories of my naughty
childhood."

Dorcas found herself bowing to this
new friend, whose plain face had yet a
very honest and pleasing expression.

Then Venetia, with a smile and a little
nod, returned to her place, and began to
chat to the gouty old peer who was to
take her in to dinner. Colonel Yerney,
always ready to laugh at himself, was
thinking with a comical smile that everyone
in the room would be saying it was a
case of beauty and the beast, when he took
this attractive young lady to the diningroom.
But when Yenetia left Dorcas,
some one else approached, breaking in
upon Colonel Yerney's little speech. She,
without looking, knew who it was who
was before her. She raised her eyes to
his face, and gave him her hand simply,
while she said calmly,

How do you do. Captain Maynard ? '*

He, man of the world as he was, betrayed

himself more than she had done, in his low

reply ; and Colonel Yerney read a romance

immediately, and smiled amused-under

VOL. III. K

his fierce moustache. Dinner was announced,
and Maynard left them.

Then Captain Maynard is an old
friend, I see. Miss Finch?" observed the
colonel, when they were seated at table.

Yes, I met him two years ago."

Ah ! before you became the fashion."

*' Am I the fashion, Colonel Verney?"
with a smile, for she was now perfectly
at ease.

< Very much so. I assure you that I,
old soldier as I am, have been all impatience
to hear you and meet you."

"I am sure I am deeply grateful," she
said, again smiling.

'' And, you see, we are all very proud of
your success, because you belong to the
county."

Maynard, precluded from taking her in,
hoped he might sit near her whom he
would think of only as his betrothed wife.

But, alas ! he found himself on the other
side of the table, and though he had
the comfort of occasionally seeing her
statuesque head and lovely throat, he could
never meet her eyes. The situation was
certainly very strange  that she should be
there, the guest of Lady Wandsworth ; and
yet it seemed perfectly right and consistent.
It was somewhat difficult to reconcile
the present with the past ; especially
difficult to think the calm, dignified
woman before him was the same agonized
girl who parted from him with such bitter
tears two years ago.

Meanwhile Colonel Verney, surprised
to find his companion was equal to all the
subjects he introduced, and indeed possessed
great intelligence, became oblivious
of the whole table, so great was his interest
and liking. Dorcas responded to
the liking heartily. It was so pleasant to
K 2

meet with a cultivated man to whom she
could talk unreservedly, without the fear
of being misconstrued. There could be
no fear of Colonel Yerney ever becoming
a lover. Venetia was by no means surprised
to see how perfectly at home Dorcas
was. There she was, natural and prepossessing,
and beyond all question a refined
lady in the right place. Though our
heroine had only once glanced slightly
around the table to see where Maynard
was sitting, she knew perfectly well when
he was looking at her ; and then she threw
her whole thought into what her companion
was saying, for she must not think of
that too dear man, whose voice still
vibrated in her ear.

Colonel Yerney was not insensible to the
attractions of his companion ; her naivete
was so charming, adding point to her
beauty. Only a yeoman's daughter, it

was true ; but what lady of a splendid
ancestry possessed sweeter courtesy, frankness,
and goodness ? Moreover the grand
old yeoman stock was the backbone of
English society, argued the well-born
colonel to himself. He was all curiosity
to know the origin of her acquaintance
with Maynard ; he saw the latter was, or
had been, her lover, but he had a half-confused
idea that Maynard was an engaged
man. Then the ladies rose, to the colonel's
regret.

What an ungallant and hateful fashion
this is ! " he said ruefully ; '' the French
manage things so much better."

However, the fair company sailed away
into the drawing-room. Lady Wandsworth
knew it was not 'good form" to ask
a professional singer to sing at a private
party, when she was there as a guest; she
was therefore most agreeably surprised

when Dorcas volunteered bj saying rather
diffidently, '' Shall I sing something, Lady
Wandsworth? It would give me much
pleasure if you would like it. I have Mr.
Hartley's permission."

There could be no doubt about the
universality of the desire to hear her, and
she moved to the grand piano, touched
and gratified. A few soft chords, by way
of prelude, and then she began the sweet
air of " Auld Robin Gray." She sang it
with such simplicity and pathos that her
singing brought tears to some eyes. Ah !
it had cost her much to attain that perfection
of singing. She was grave herself,
when she rose, amid sincere thanks and
expressions of warm approval. She joined
some ladies who were looking over a portfolio
of rare engravings, but almost immediately
Colonel Yerney and Maynard
were by her.

'' So you have been singing. Miss
Finch, and we unfortunate men have not
had the privilege of hearing you. Surely
you will be kind enough to sing again ? "

Certainly, if Lady Wandsworth wishes
it."

There can be no doubt on that score ;
but here is Captain Maynard, who is most
anxious to renew his acquaintance with
you, I can see. How fortunate he is to
possess a prior claim on your attention,"
he said, smiling, but narrowly scrutinizing
her as she blushed slightly.

The colonel was no dog in the manger,
and very considerately left them, while he
immediately engaged the nearest lady's
attention.

The engraving which just then was
before Dorcas's eyes was a view of the
exquisite Lake of Semi. An odd coincidence
; for she remembered a photograph

of the same place, which Maynard had
shown her that evening at the Hall, when
Mrs. Anstej had been so enraged; she
wondered if he would remember.

'rit is rather singular that we should
meet here, is it not?" he said, and his
voice trembled a little.

'' Very singular," she replied, studying
the lake, while he studied her.

'' And  and your ambition must be
satisfied now? "

'rit will be if I can acquit myself
creditably next week."

Have you no dearer ambition,
Dorcas ? " bending nearer to her.

Do you remember showing me a
photograph of this at the Hall ? "

Yes, 1 have forgotten nothing."

I hope you have quite recovered from
your illness, Captain Maynard."

'* Yes, thanks, months ago ; surely I do
not look ill now ? " lie said, in the hope of
making her raise her eyes.

And once more, after two years, he met
her sweet glance, grave and fearless as it
had been before she loved him Shyly
her eyes again sought the Lake of Semi.

Did you know it was a question of
life or death with me ? "

'' Yes."

Suppose I had died ? '*

But you have lived."

Yes, I have lived for you."

What a charming man Colonel Verney
is!"

'' You appeared to find him so at
dinner," he said, offended.

I did, indeed."

You used not to be a coquette."

*' I don't know that I am one now."

If you sing again, will you give me an
old favourite, ' Oh, that we two were Maying
! ' ?  though, perhaps, I am asking too
much," he said haughtily.
Of course I will sing it, if you wish me."
I come as a suppliant, Miss Finch,"
said Colonel Yerney, " to remind you of
your kind promise just now. Lady
Wandsworth and all her guests,  I
speak feelingly,  will be charmed if you
will favour them with just one more song.
And then imagine the heresy  the young
fellows say they want a few waltzes before
bed-time ! Allow me to pilot you across
this big room ; you know, you are under
my charge."
Dorcas by no means felt the same perfect
self-command she had in her previous song ;
but perhaps the slight emotion she could
not quite banish, gave additional beauty
to the expression of that very charming

song. Every sound was hushed, as the
clear, young, pathetic voice rose and fell.
As she went on, the remembrance of the
past grew strong upon her,  so strong, 
with such a powerful touch, that in the
last verse she faltered a little; but only
two people there knew the faltering was
real and not art.

Lord "Wandsworth very courteously
begged for another song ; she immediately
complied by bursting forth into a French
chanson, as bright and sparkling as the
French themselves.

Then, as if by magic, she was surrounded
by all the younger men asking
for a waltz, for some good-natured ladies
had volunteered to play ; and most of the
guests moved away to the ball-room, which
might also have been termed a picture-gallery.
On every side the eye was
met by some rare and superb painting,

glowing with the colour and replete
with the grace of the great foreign
masters, or delicate groups, a little
faded, by the master-hands of Reynolds,
Gainsborough, or Romney; these latter,
many of them, portraits of the Langton
family.

Dorcas certainly found waltzing most
delightful in such a noble room and with
such very good partners. Then the
fragrant flowers everywhere, the palms
and ferns, from amongst which some rare
marble form arose. Dorcas, dancing
though she was, yet observed Captain Maynard
from time to time. When she saw
how every lady welcomed him,  how all
there made much of him,  she felt with an
acute pang how much he sacrificed in his
love for herself, who possessed no birth,
no position, except that of a refined,
educated woman. With the exception of

Lord Wandswortli, no man there could
approach him in personal advantages. She
realized more than she ever had before the
terrible difference between her position and
his ; and jet he, that distinguished man,
pleaded so sweetly for her love, when, of
all that room, he might make his choice
from nobly-born and wealthy girls. To her
he had never made anything of his position
as the heir of Carrington  the heirship
he had put iu jeopardy for her sake.

Poor Dorcas ! All these great people
were so kind, so courteous, but yet she was
not one of them. She recognized in many
little touches the difference. In many
ways she was more clever, more cultivated,
even perhaps more refined  but what was
it ? Those were her own thoughts ; she
did not realize that her great charm lay in
the piquancy and freshness of her perfect
manners.

She was a little disturbed and diffident
when lie at length came to her and solicited
a waltz. It was their first dance. It
seemed passing strange to feel his arm
around her, his hand holding hers, and
to know a few short words from her would
keep him for ever by her side. Captain
Maynard watched many men taking Dorcas
round the room before he himself ventured
to approach her. In truth the whole
situation was a trifle odd, and he felt
rather bewildered. It was a singular and
novel circumstance that he should meet
Dorcas on terms of equality under Lady
Wandsworth's roof ; but it appeared still
more singular that Dorcas should meet
him with the unembarrassed greeting of a
comparative stranger. And she wondered
why he, of all men there, should have
refrained from asking her for a waltz at
first. Perhaps, had she criticized her

feelings, lie might have been conscious
of a little chagrin, though of course
it was so right of him to keep from
her.

The music stopped a moment ; then
another lady volunteered, and immediately
began a charming waltz. Surrounded as
she was, Dorcas saw him near her, felt all
his command and dearness, when he coldly
but politely asked for that waltz. Yenetia,
who had been waiting for this little episode,
saw the slight delicate blush on Dorcas's
face, as she rose and walked away with
her lover. Colonel Yerney, too, was
watching that handsome couple  the man
tall, distinguished, inclining to be dark;
the girl simply exquisite, with those downcast
eyes veiled by their long, dark, curled
lashes. The colonel meditatively stroked
his moustache, as he followed their graceful
movements ; a very pretty romance was

quietly proceeding before his eyes, and he
was much amused.

In that fine room there were many very
delectable resting-places amongst the
statuary and flowers,  recesses that seemed
invented for flirtation and love-making.
But Captain Maynard, after a few turns,
desired a still more secluded spot than the
charming recess, where they were, to all
intents and purposes, alone.

Come with me somewhere out of this
crowd'' he murmured ; " I must speak to
you alone."

But I cannot meet you alone, Captain
Maynard."

Why not ? "

You know I promised my father that
I would not."

You had no right to give such a
promise. It is impossible that you can
fear me ! "

'* No," she returned gently ; " I do not
fear you."

You onglit to feel that I have the most
sacred claim on you to be heard."

Yes ; but I must not listen to you."

"You must hear me."

She shook her head.

*' I cannot."

Dorcas, do you wish me to think that
you have changed ? "

''No."

Do you remember how you parted from
me ?  but you are so cold, perhaps you wish
to forget."

*' I have forgotten nothing."

Watching as he was every change of
emotion on her lovely, downcast face, he
saw she gave a little shiver of pain.

Come with me," he pleaded passionately.


*' I cannot ; allow me to pass."

VOL. III. L

Then you wish me to speak to you
here, in the midst of all these chattering
fools ? " he said angrily.

No ; it is simply my duty, and  and
my wish not to hear you."

Your wish ? What am I to infer from
that?"

 Why don't you leave me ? Why do
you persecute me so ? " she exclaimed
haughtily, and at last raising her troubled
eyes half defiantly to his.

*' Persecute you ? " with almost a groan.
One question : do you still love me,
Dorcas ? If you do not, lay your hand upon
your heart and tell me so. If I have lost
you, I will never trouble you again."

Then in the silence he saw she strove to
speak, but could not ; he saw her sweet
colour die away ; he saw the troubled
movement of her bosom, on which she
made no attempt to lay her hand.

You  you know. Oli ! be generous
and leave me ! " lie exclaimed passionately,
and looking into his face with such
appeal and deprecation that he was more
than reassured.

Dearest one," he murmured with a
smile, raising her gloved hand courteously
to his lips, "you will meet me now?"

But to that question she returned no
answer, as they joined others who were
leaving the ball-room, for the clock had
just struck twelve.

l2

Chapter V.

Read not my blemishes in the world's report,
I have not kept my square ; but that to come
Shall all be done by rule."

Ant. and Leo., Act il Sc. 3.

The jewel that we find, we stoop and take it."

Measure for Measure, Act ii. Sc. 1 .

Love for thy love, and hand for hand I give."

Henry VI., Act iii. Sc. 1.

The sensation created in the fashionable
world by the intelligence that Lord and
Lady Wandsworth were gone alone to
their shooting-box in the Highlands was
hardly less than if the countess had eloped
with Colonel Langton. Those who had so
confidently predicted a catastrophe were

now completely at fault ; for who could have
imagined a reconciliation possible between
two people so proud and so estranged ?
Those friends who had allowed themselves
to be influenced by the unhappy
rumours felt in a very difficult and awkward
position; for instantly public opinion veered
round. Instead of being a sinner, Lady
Wandsworth was a deeply-injured lady,  in
truth a martyr. All people agreed, however,
that a woman must be magnanimous
indeed to forgive the discourtesy shown
her through such a terrible misconception.
Meanwhile these two, whose troubles had
proved so interesting to an idle world, were
happier than they had ever been in their
life. In those delightful weeks their menage
was simplicity itself. None of the state of
the castle was there; a few servants, a
comparatively small house, and some of
the most beautiful scenery of the wilder

description around them. This was their
true honeymoon. Yenetia had said at the
moment of her reconciliation that her life
was his; and the proud man in these
subsequent days was not too proud to woo
his wife afresh, with an affection and
gentleness which drew her to him in the
closest bonds. And he loved, as he had
never loved. Their terrible division and
coldness had maddened him. Her resistance,
her proud indifference to his wishes,
astonished and angered one who had ever
in all the affairs of life, found himself
supreme,  his authority unquestioned.
They both wondered, and were perhaps a
little ashamed, that they had so wilfully
blundered, each wounding the other, when
in truth they were all in all to each other.
So sometimes good comes out of apparent
evil. If Yenetia had had her first
romantic love gratified by a marriage with

Hubert Maynard, how soon would the
passion have died into indifference, perhaps
contempt; because he would never
have gained the ascendency over such an
imperious spirit as was hers. In some great
happiness there is pain ; it was so with
Venetia. Lord Wandsworth's life has
shown how blessed a thing it is for a man
to have near him a wife who, though
ever obedient to his wishes, is yet his
first inspiration to all the nobler things of
life, while her blessed tenderness and
sympathy can heal his wounds. . . .

When Dorcas was alone in her warm,
bright room, she realized that her lover
had won much ground that night, and
that her defences were getting weaker and
weaker. For more than two years they
had never exchanged a word, and now they
had met once more. Love him ! As she
stood there she knew he had never been

SO dear as he was now. And what touched
her so was the alteration in him; she
knew he must have suffered, since he was
so grave, so worn-looking.

Then came the question, did she not owe
to him as great a duty as to her father ?
If she could grant his wish and add to
his happiness, was it not incumbent on
her to do so ?

How well she remembered all his words
of wild reproach when she had refused
him that night down by the river. Then
came the later remembrance of the
present night ; his doubt, his anger, his
commanding questions, his tenderness.
Why should she not end the struggle
by giving him her promise? He had
proved, beyond all question, the sincerity
and faithfulness of his attachment, and
could she again so cruelly send him from
her ? She was deliberating, but not lost.

In the conflict between her love for him
and her duty to her father, she was
becoming confused. Everything seemed
to plead in Maynard's favour.

She was no longer unknown and obscure,
but had won a position of which any
woman might be proud; and indeed it
would be somewhat of a grief to throw
away all the material advantages she
had reaped, after so much industry and
labour. She remembered those instances
where brilliant and beautiful actresses
had been taken to grace noble homes
with their dignity, their goodness, and
their affection ; but this night she did
painfully realize that Maynard's marriage
with her must, even at the best, be a
sacrifice on his part. His uncle was right.
Then she thought of her brother who,
though a steady and brave young soldier,
was still but a sergeant in a cavalry regiment,

and, being such, it seemed a strange
anomaly that his sister should be a
baronet's wife. Could a man so proud
as Majnard endure such a state of things ?
Was his love great enough to be still
the same when he must introduce the
yeoman's daughter as his wife ? Loyal
and tender as he was, he was still mortal.
But if, after she was his wife, he should
change, become cold or indifferent to her
affection ? How could she bear it ? She
was full of self distrust. Already he had
given up a noble woman for her sake, as
well as a princely bequest, and even
now was openly disregarding his uncle's
wishes, and might lose his inheritance.
Alas ! what must she do ? And so, full
of doubts and perplexities, she fell asleep,
to awake the next morning with only the
bright side of life visible.

Sunday passed not unhappily. All

the guests went correctly to church in
the morning. How pleasant was that walk
across the park in the stillness of the
September morning,  a thousand dazzling
refractions meeting the eye from the
dewy undergrowth,  the trees here and
there just a little touched with the
autumnal tints,  the air crisp from a
suspicion of early frost,  the harmonious
bells ringing in the distance from the
picturesque little grey-stone church.

The countess herself led the large party,
stepping lightly and briskly over the turf,
while the air and the exercise made her
brilliantly beautiful, as she chatted to her
companion, a distinguished diplomatist.
The lazy or delicate guests drove
round and met the other party in the
churchyard.

Dorcas and some other young ladies
had a good attendance of cavaliers, and

indulged in much agreeable conversation.
Who could be dejected on such a lovely
day and in such society ?

Captain Maynard felt he must be patient
and bide his time ; so he followed in the
rear of the gayer party with an old friend.
Colonel Yerney, on the contrary, was by
Dorcas's side, and enjoyed himself vastly.

The evening was devoted to sacred
music, and Lady Wandsworth, who did
not very often sing, favoured her guests
with some solos. Her voice was, like
herself, rich, deep, and passionate, with
wonderful delicacy of tone and expression.
She also sang several duets with Dorcas,
and certainly nothing finer would be heard
in the cathedral during the week. Since
her marriage Yenetia had very rarely
gratified her friends by letting them hear
her voice*'

Why don't you sing, Yenetia ? " asked

Lord Wandswortli languidly. *' People
should not bury their talents in a napkin."

I did not know you cared," she returned,
smiling.

That is most unkind of you ; you
know I always liked your voice, only I
have had so few opportunities of hearing
it since -since we were at Amalfi."

They were some distance from any of
their guests, but still he dropped his voice
when he alluded to Amalfi. His words
evidently brought back some remembrance
that was painful, for she coloured.

*< Why do you recall that evening, when
when?"

Because I like to realize the difference
between my misery then and my happiness
now ; that is why. Now, let these
people hear you."

And so Venetia sang, obedient to his
wish ; and he listened, marvelling: at her

sweet attraction, and half afraid of his
happiness.

Dorcas was verily in the land of enchantment.
She was too young not to bedazzled
by the brilliance around her,
too young and too genuine not to warmly
reciprocate the kindness shown her. She
was in a state of much excitement on
Monday night, when she was dressing
for the ball  her first ball  a great event
to most girls. Even grim Sarah smiled
when she saw her mistress's lustrous eyes
and delicate colour.

Several lovely bouquets awaited her selection
; she thought it a great pity she could
not wear them all. But which was Ms ? she
wondered, looking critically and anxiously
among the fragrant flowers for some little
sign. On the stem of one was written
faintly in pencil, '' Toujours fidele''
That was his, for the words were the

Maynard' motto. How gratified the
perplexed and melancholy Maynard would
have been had he seen the rapture with
which she held the flowers, first to her
lips, and then to her bosom !

Not one word with her alone had he
been able to secure since Saturday night.
He constantly saw her the centre of
an adoring group of men, and she seemed
as perfectly at home as if she had been a
coquette all her life. Sometimes he could
not resist throwing some reproach into
his glance ; but, whatever she might feel,
she would not see his reproach. This
night, for the first time since that scene
in the dairy two years before, she rejoiced
in her beauty for his sake. Was it not
well for his sake that others should think
her worthy of love and admiration, that
when she was his wife his sacrifice should
not seem so great to the world ? Reproach

in his eyes ! Did lie not see it ? Did
not his merest word send her heart beating
tumultuously ?

Dinner was earlier than usual; a last
look in her mirror, and Dorcas,  a picture
in her perfect dress,  her eyes and
mouth half-smiling, passed out into the
wide corridor and joined the throng of
beautifully-dressed ladies, who, laughing
and chatting, were proceeding to the
drawing-room.

Meantime Captain Maynard, while dressing,
had been wondering much whether
she would choose his bouquet. He knew
she loved him, and yet she would give no
sign. To any but to him she was sweet
and gracious in manner, though always
most dignified. To him she was almost
cold, as if she resented his attentions ; but
this night he would put his fate to the
touch  there should be no more indecision.

He was one of the first in the drawing-room,
and watched with some anxiety the
entrance of various ladies who were
guests in the house ; but no Dorcas
came.

Lady Wandsworth, whose past troubles
appeared to have increased her fascination,
came in presently rather later than she
was wont, and, half-amused, half-touched,
watched the drama proceeding amongst
her guests. Presently a number of ladies
entered, and with them Dorcas. Even in
that well-bred throng of people there was
some sensation, and which her appearance
fully justified when she advanced. As she
passed by Captain Maynard, who had at
once recognized his bouquet, she could not
resist the appeal of his eyes. " Toujours
fidele," she murmured, as, with the flowers
to her lips, she smiled over them in such a
way that he ought to have been satisfied.

VOL. 111. M

The little scene had not passed unnoticed.
Yenetia was charmed ; it was so
gracefully done ; and she, with others,
thought a more distinguished man, or a
more lovely woman, never met with all
the charm of affection lying between them.
It must be remembered that never since
Captain Maynard had become her lover
had Dorcas smiled upon him. Before he
had been her suitor, her smiles had been
frequent and her gaiety spontaneous. As
she passed on, it suddenly struck her that
she had given him an extraordinary
amount of encouragement ; in truth sufficient
almost to invite him to persist in his
wooing. The defences were still weaker
this night. Maynard certainly understood
that he had gained much, when he met
those tranquil eyes, with their trustful,
sweet expression, and this hopes grew proportionately.

She was wavering in her
decision, if not won. Why could not his
uncle see her and feel the power of her fascination
? Where was there any one who
could compare with her, as she was standing
before a tall, white-haired man, whom
he recognized as Lord Anstruther, who,
with his wife, had arrived late that afternoon.
Then he remembered his uncle's
story of Milicent Finch. It was hardly
possible that Milicent ( f the last generation
could equal the lovely Dorcas of the
present.

Dorcas, a little shy from many reasons,
was withdrawing into a recess, when Lady
Wandsworth came forward with a gentleman,
whose bearing was singularly noble ;
and Dorcas thought she had never seen a
more expressive or benevolent face. His
hair, beard, and moustache were perfectly
M 2

white, but still there was no look of age
in the upright figure, and the calm,
steadfast, dark eyes.

Dorcas, Lord Anstruther has asked
me to introduce him to you," said Yenetia
with a kind smile, and then Dorcas found
my lord's glance fixed upon her, much
as if he were astounded and pained, ashe
courteously bowed.

It seemed to him that Vincent, the love
of his Hfe, was suddenly before him.
Thirty years vanished and he was again
looking into the same dark grey eyes,
which would surely be presently veiled by
their long lashes, as they were years ago.
It must be Milicent ! There was the same
face, the same form, the same woman
surely, looking out from this graceful
girl's surprised, grave eyes. Why did not
that perfect mouth break into a smile,
when it had so often smiled upon him

years ago ? For a few moments he could
scarcely realize it was not Milicent, the
resemblance was so striking and so
remarkable.

Lady Anstruther, a faded, elegant
woman, had been watching this introduction
with much anxiety, and now came to
her husband's rescue. She saw the wave
of emotion which old memories had stirred
saw him standing lost to the immediate
surroundings, and Dorcas looking surprised
and rather embarrassed by his extreme
attention and interest.

'* Wilfred," she said gently, and laying
her hand on his arm, '' will you not introduce
Miss Dorcas Finch to me ? "

The spell was broken.

"Miss Finch, Lady Anstruther," he said
with some effort, and flushing a little.
'miss Finch," he continued, "you 
you remind me so much of a very old

friend, that remembrance midst excuse my
apparent rudeness."

Then came the later memory, with its
sacred anguish,  his Milicent had passed
away from him for ever; her noble,
courageous heart no longer throbbed with
either pain or joy, but was stilled in the
eternal peace.

As Dorcas turned to Lady Anstruther
and shook hands, it instantly struck her
who that old friend had been.

Lord Anstruther' s emotion told her
beloved aunt's story ; for it needed
little imagination to see that the whole
romance, long dead and gone, of those
past years, had been painfully vivid then
to the agitated man.

Lady Anstruther, good wife as she was,
had always felt a little jealous of the beautiful
and gifted woman who had so completely
possessed her husband's heart.

But if the dead woman had been as lovely
as her Having niece, she did not wonder at
the fascination she had exercised, living
and dead. Lady Anstruther wondered if
this same niece, with her astonishing ease
and high-bred manner, knew the story.

Dorcas knew it then, and estimated the
greatness of her aunt's sacrifice. For this
man, this truly noble man, looked born to
command a woman's love, and a woman's
homage,  and love can never die. The
thought carried her swiftly back into the
romantic past.

Just as the position of these three
people was becoming a little strained, for
just then commonplaces were difficult with
each, dinner was fortunately announced.
A gentleman came forward to Lady An-stretcher,
while her husband said, with a
smile, to Dorcas, '* I hope to make your
better acquaintance by-and-by," before

he moved to the ancient dame who was
awaiting his escort.

I think I am to have the honour of
taking sou in to dinner," said a voice at
Dorcas's side, which she had been hoping
to hear. She merely bowed, and allowed
him to take her hand within his arm. So
they were at length side by side, their
immediate neighbours being: a deaf old
lady and a purblind old gentleman.
The hostess had of course made this
pleasant arrangement for the people she
wished to befriend. In the soft hum of
subdued conversation around that wide
table, what opportunities he possessed for
saying something to touch the pale, proud
maiden ! Just because there was the
opportunity he forbore ; nothing should
induce him to distress her, and he soon
was chatting as usual; but now he had

SO many new and strange experiences as
the result of his prolonged travels.

While Dorcas listened to him much interested,
she could not banish the recollection
of her aunt's story. Its interest was
infinitely greater just then than her lover's
account of his marvellous journeyings
hither and thither. Her aunt's romance
appealed directly, personally, to her own
case. Even in that different scene, so
brilliant, so splendid, she heard the
pathetic refrain of the dying woman,
Toujours, toujours." And there, at the
other side of the table, was the object of
that unchangeable love. Ah ! how noble a
woman she had been ! Giving up that
which had been most precious in life, with
the same grand spirit of sacrifice which
influenced Edith.

Then Dorcas, with her lover's voice falling

on lier ear, but almost lost to the sense
of what he was saying,  thought. Could he
this man by her side  be content with a
Lady Anstruther ? A man so capable of
appreciating the ties of home and affection,
but who must have something more thana
nonentity. A faithful husband he would
prove to such a woman ; but such a
marriage would be a mockery to him, because
the first, the honest tie of love was
absent. To-night she-must decide whether
she would enter into his life and make it
blessed with her affection, or whether she
would deny him and part from him forever.
Could she part from him ? she
thought,  meeting his eyes with something
of the divine Hight of an undying love in
them. Had any one a right to separate
them  to come between them ? Oh, why
were there such trammels, such divisions,
when with a less artificial state of society

they might be so happy ! She was very
silent; all the crises of her life seemed
about to occur together.

On the morrow she must stand before
the world in another character. To sing
as the second soprano at the festival at
Eastminster Cathedral had been of late
the height of her ambition. On the eve
of this great effort of success she was
called upon to decide a still more momentous
question. Dare she trust her own
judgment ? Edith had always said she
owed a duty to her lover, as well as to her
father; but how far went that obligation
of duty ?

Maynard thought his companion very
cold to all his advances, little dreaming of
the conflict within her bosom.

As dinner drew to a conclusion, she became
more and more silent, because she
felt more and more how intensely dear he

was, and she could not decide. At length,
hurt and piqued, he dared an experiment
which, had he been less moved, he
Avould never have attempted  he simply
recited four lines in Italian very softly.
Alas ! she knew them too welL The
eloquent blood dyed her face a moment,
and then there was a look of agony which
more than punished him.

Forgive me ; I wanted to touch you
through your coldness," he said in the
same language.

"You have succeeded," she replied
haughtily.

Your coldness made me cruel; why do
you repel me?" he asked passionately.

You have mistaken me," she answered
very, very low.

Have I ? When you came into the
drawing-room, I was mad enough to

think I lead won you ; but since then
you-then

the ladies were rising, and with
downcast eyes she left him.

Dorcas followed in the crowd, swallowing
down something which felt like a burst
of tears. Cry ?  not if she knew it ! She
would be wildly mirthful, and he should be
half distracted with regret. Cold !  when
for his sake she was wondering which
course she must take ; ready in her loyalty
to him to sacrifice everything she had
won, or, even more,  to sacrifice her love.
And he had been cruel in that one allusion
to a folly, the thought of which always
made her cheek burn with shame. It was
the one remembrance of all which tortured
her, cut so cruelly into her pride ; and he
had purposely wounded her, to show his
power. Why had she ever come to

Wandsworth Castle? How multi better
it would have been for her to have spent
this day and night quietly at the old hotel
in preparation for the hard work of the
morrow.

You would like me to sing ? " she said
with a smile and suspiciously bright eyes
to Venetia.

'' Like you ? indeed, yes ; but you
ought to be free to-night, dear. I feel ill-bred
even in wishing to hear you."

Pray be ill-bred, then, dear Lady
Wandsworth ! I will do my best to
amuse your guests for the next half-hour.
I am going to play some Hungarian dances
now."

Who could imagine that that smiling
girl's heart was throbbing with pain and
anger, while she played so harmoniously.

By-and-by, when quite sure of herself,
she began to sing, giving the people who

had treated her so kindly and with such
perfect courtesy a gratuitous concert.
She was in her element. She luxuriated
in all the music of her voice, and was
proud of her complete self-command and
finished performance.

When Maynard came in, angry with
himself for his breach of good manners
and his abominable want of generosity, he
drew near to the brilliant young singer,
and was the more angry on seeing how
perfectly at ease she was.

Singing ! When she ought to be weeping
after receiving such a wound from
her lover.

Lord Anstruther had stolen in, and
stood entranced. This Milicent was a
more brilliant woman than his,  even a
more beautiful woman  more coquettish,
with the manners of a later age. He
had watched her with Maynard during

dinner as closely as good breeding would
allow. He saw it was much this own story
again, only this would end differently.
But would his proud old friend, Sir
William Maynard, ever tolerate such a
marriage for his heir, lovely and distinguished
though the girl was ? The
old, old love stirred him. For Milicent's
sake he would try to smooth the way for
her fascinating young relative,  the child
of her adoption and love.

Meantime Maynard was wondering
whether Dorcas was angry with him, while
she appeared so perfectly indifferent to his
presence.

Presently, after three songs, she rose,
a little tired, and when seated was at
once surrounded by all the young men in
the house, who, with their programmes in
their hands, were begging for dances.

Captain Maynard stared a little at this

proof of her popularity. Of course it
was quite right that lie should be the
belle of Lady Wandsworth's drawing-room,
but still it was rather astonishing, when be
remembered other days two years ago, the
interval between which was so remarkably
bridged over.

Dorcas certainly thought he might have
come to her with some little speech of
regret for his rudeness ; and, seeing he held
himself aloof, she became in her chagrin a
little defiant, and recklessly filled in her
programme with the exception of three
waltzes ; but the person for whom those
waltzes were reserved maintained a dignified
hauteur, and never approached her.
But, chatting though she was,  indeed
perhaps coquetting a little with the
bright-eyed young fellows around her, 
she swallowed down some tears. And yet
how absurd it was they should quarrel !

VOL. III. N

Still she felt inclined to fill up her card
and allow him no dance at all.

Three hours later the ball was at its
height, but Captain Maynard had never
asked for one of those reserved dances,
though he had been dancing with every
pretty woman in the room.

Colonel Verney had been favoured in
his place, and when they were waltzing a
little incident occurred.
- Dorcas was in truth somewhat dazzled
by the brilliant scene, and also thrilled
by the inspiriting music, to which moved
a graceful and distinguished crowd of
people. Besides what mortal woman
could refrain from feeling gratified by all
the delicate flattery and admiration called
forth by her beauty and fascination ? The
present sense of enjoyment and triumph
was almost powerful enough to banish her
disappointment and vexation at her lover's

strange neglect. SHe knew very well with
whom he was dancing ; she was not too
preoccupied to be blind to his movements,
or to the gentle encouragement he received
from some remarkably bright eyes.

As the night passed, and she was still
forsaken, she asked herself the serious
question  would it not indeed be best for
him to part from her ?

Just then Colonel Yerney, who seemed
almost an old friend, came up and asked
for a third waltz. This astute gentleman
saw his charge was looking a little weary,
in spite of her triumph; he was rather
mystified at the very pointed way in which
Maynard had kept from her, but he gently
rallied her on the marked attention she
was receiving. When they were revolving
very pleasantly, an awkward couple came
with considerable force against them, and
it was only the good balance the colonel

possessed that prevented them from going
ignominiously down. The sudden collision,
however, sent a locket Dorcas was wearing
on the floor, making it spring open.

Oh, my locket ! please give it to me,"
she exclaimed.

The colonel immediately rescued it, but,
before he closed it, he saw it held a photograph
of Captain Maynard.

She received the locket with a low
*' Thank you," but she was scarlet with
embarrassment, and after she had again
fastened it round her throat, he saw she
was so pale he feared she would faint.

Come to the balcony for a few
minutes," he said pityingly, '' the room is
so warm."

A window was close by ; he felt her
hand trembling on his arm, and was glad
when she was safe from observation and
resting in a chair on the cool, deserted

balcony. The whole situation of affairs
immediately flashed upon Colonel Verney ;
here by his side was the cause of Maynard's
broken engagement to Edith Fleming. But
with such a powerful temptation might nota
man be forgiven even broken faith to
another woman ?

Dorcas, still extremely pale, was leaning
back and fanning herself, while she felt that
her companion knew the whole story from
the betrayal of that wretched locket.

The colonel, ignoring the whole incident,
kindly chatted on, in order that she might
recover herself; and he thought the while
that Captain Maynard was a very fortunate
man, to have won such an interesting
and intelligent young girl. The colonel
himself was a little touched by his
companion's charming insouciance, and a
very kind and compassionate expression
came over his world-worn face.

Presently some one else approached lier
from another window. Captain Maynard
was so disturbed that he even felt jealous
of Colonel Yerney when he saw the evident
embarrassment of Dorcas, while she
listened to the colonel's low, subdued voice'*

May I have the pleasure of a waltz, if
you have one left, Miss Finch ? " he asked
almost haughtily.

The colonel with a smile left them
together.

I think I have one or two left," she
said carelessly, while she looked up into
his face, and there was the faintest
suspicion of a smile in her eyes and
mouth, before she consulted her programme.
'* Yes, the 16th and the 20th."

*' May I have them both ? "

'eyes."

'* You seem to have been tremendously
happy to-night."

Yes ; ought one to be gloomy at a
ball ? "

I am surprised to find I am fortunate
enough to secure two waltzes."

"It is odd, certainly;" and again there
was the sweetness of a smile.

I wonder if you kept them for me ? "
he murmured, striving to see her half-averted
face.

'' If I did, I don't think you have
deserved them, have you ? " and then, still
smiling, she looked a little reproachfully
into his face.

Dorcas," he said  but another partner
stepped from the ball-room and took her
away before he could finish his sentence.

Dorcas astonished her partner by her
absence of mind. Well did she know that
virtually she had capitulated to her lover
after her long resistance. It was meeting
him ; his beloved presence had made her

yield. What was there left to her in life
if she lost his love ? So she answered
her companion's commonplaces languidly,
being in truth too powerfully absorbed
in thoughts which comprised a past not
untouched with regret, and a future beset
with much difficulty. Splendid as the
scene was around her, she was becoming
very weary.

When Maynard, with something of
proud elation and tenderness in his glance,
came to her side, the promised valse had
begun. Few words passed between them
while they danced, which was not long.
Maynard' s heart was throbbing to give
expression to the passion which made it
beat. Once round that vast room, and
then, when they were near a door, he
murmured, 

You know I must speak to you ; will
you come to the library ? "

'' Yes, if you wish."

Skilfully he managed their exit, so that
it remained unmarked, and they were
soon in the quiet, half-dim library  the
first time they had been really alone since
their parting, two years ago. He had so
much to say, and yet he stood near her,
silent, almost overcome by the thought,
by the hope, that at length she was about
to surrender. Again he felt it so difficult
to realize that this calm, perfectly, self-possessed
woman was the same humiliated,
despairing girl from whom he had parted.
The difference made itself felt. He knew
that any man who gained this sweet
woman's love would be indeed blessed, and
he had gained that love and perhaps
compliance to his wishes ; but, proud man
as he was, he must be a suppliant ; he
must still ask some slight sacrifice from
her.

"Won't you sit down?" he asked, and
his voice faltered.

''No; I prefer to stand, thank jon,"
she replied, still looking into the smouldering
fire, and wishing he would begin
his story instead of silently regarding
her.

Her perfect self-command betrayed nothing
of what she felt just then.

Dorcas," he said at length, and the
music of his voice recalled that hour when
he had first dared to call her so  '' Dorcas,"
will you forgive me for my unmanly rudeness
to you at dinner ? You  you seemed
so perfectly indifferent to me, as if I were
a mere stranger, that I was tempted to be
cruel and ungenerous. I wished to wound
you ; I wanted to know if I still possessed
the power. You must know that such an
exquisite confession was, is, precious beyond
compare, and yet I used it to wound you.

Can sou forgive me?" and then lie laid
his band gently on hers.

"You are quite forgiven," she answered
softly, while she did not repulse his
hand.

I have thought you a coquette these
last few days, but I have wronged you ;
for, Dorcas, I feel now you love me still.
Ah ! let me hear you confess it once
more."

'' I could hardly have forgiven you what
you said to-night unless I had loved you,
could I ?" she replied, blushing deeply at
the frankness of her avowal.

Then he attempted to take her in his
arms, but she drew back with a little
frown and a smile.

No, no. Captain Maynard."

Captain Maynard, Dorcas ! Am I
never to get any nearer ? Ah ! the times
are changed with you. It seems an impertinence

for me to ask you to give up
what you have so nobly won."

*' No, no," she said gently.

But I feel it is so, when  when I can
only offer you almost poverty. My uncle
will never consent to our marriage ;
perhaps lie might forgive me afterwards,
but, dear Dorcas, it is impossible to
say."

It is terrible you should risk so much
for me. Would  would my love repay
you?"

"You know it would ; you know all my
happiness depends on you."

'' It is a very, very solemn responsibility
for me to accept, to know I am the means
of separating you from your uncle."

He knows my determination. Dorcas,
can you accept me on these hard terms ? "

Yes," she answered, after a moment's
hesitation; "but,"  hurriedly,  "two years

ago you mentioned certain conditions that
I  I could not possibly comply with."

All 1 I remember but too well," he
said, flushing hotly. " I have taken shame
to myself that I ever suggested such a
base proposal. Forget it and forgive me.
Remember in what trouble and despair I
was then; I was almost distracted, and so
I forgot the consideration due to you.
But you must feel now how much I regret
having wounded you. Dearest, I ask
nothing more than that you will be my
wife very soon. Our marriage shall be at
Carstone, openly, in the sight of God and
man. Your father will, I trust, so far
forgive and receive me that he will himself
give you to me."

Dorcas listened with almost amazement
at this new proof of love. No private
marriage, no suspense, no shadow of
wrong to rest upon her, but to be his wife,

blessed doubly by her father's blessing !
Wonderingly she raised her tear-laden eyes
to his.

And  and you will really make this
sacrifice for my sake?" she said, hardly
above a whisper.

I would do more for your sake. Dorcas,
you will let our marriage take place directly
the festival is over ? "

'' I cannot. It is utterly impossible.
I have engagements up to Christmas,"
she said with astonishment.

'' I have thought of all that. It
will be quite possible for you to fulfil
your engagements, if you wish, after
our return from the continent ; though
I should prefer your cancelling all of
them."

'' I could not do that ; it would be so
wrong and ungracious to my friends."

Lady Wandsworth tells me you are

going home on Friday or Saturday for a
holiday of nearly three weeks. I propose
that we should be married next week, and
then have at least three weeks for our
honeymoon."

*'No, no; it is so sudden  I cannot."

And now surprise and distress made her
agitated.

'' Is this your answer after my waiting
for you more than two years ? " he asked
reproachfully.

You ask an impossibility."

Not if you love me."

*' Wait until Christmas ; I promise I will
be your wife then."

And now, very pale, she looked into his
face with entreaty.

*' Life is too short for longer waiting.
What is to be gained by it ? Surely you
cannot reject me now ? Will you give meno
proof of your love ? Have you no faith

in me ? You ought to trust me, but you
do not," lie said bitterly.

Don't say that, when  when  oh !
what must I do ? " she exclaimed, hesitating
and remembering many things which
the excitement and glamour of the hour
had banished, but which now stood out
sharp and clear. " Your request is so  so
unexpected."

Hardly unexpected, Dorcas. Have
you not had two years to think of it, and
to decide ? For I cannot imagine you
have thought all my protestations of
fidelity mere nonsense. I might reproach
you, that you expect almost too much from
me."

Your reproach is just. Forgive me.
Won't you give me a little time for consideration
? "

No, my sweet one ; no longer time
than this present. How strange it is that

you should hesitate so ! Am I such a
despot ? " he asked sadly.

Let  let it be as you will ; I cannot
resist you longer," she said with the
sweetest smile of a woman's life, while she
held out her hands to him with all the
eloquence of surrender in her gesture.

And then, with proud tenderness, he
gently drew her to him, and gave her the
sacred kiss of betrothal.

VOL. III.

CHAPTER YI.

A noble temper dost thou show in this."

King John, Act v. Sc. 2.

Mine ear is much enamour'd of thy note."

Midsummer Night's Dream, Act iii. Sc. 1.

Now all the blessings of a glad father compass thee

about."

Tempest, Act v. Sc. 1.

Meanwhile two impatient men were seeking
in vain for the belle of the evening,
who certainly just then was quite oblivious
of lier engagements, as, with ber lover's
arm around ber, sbe listened to the old,
old story. And as sbe listened, sbe wondered
much that sbe bad for so long a
time been able to reject so sweet a lover,

now SO soon to be her husband. After
all her doubts she was conscious of a
restful, trustful happiness which was very
delightful. Henceforth he must be her
guide and her protector, and she was to
be the dearest companion of his life. Ah !
she thought, with sudden tears in her
eyes, might he never regret his marriage !
might she indeed be his help-meet 1 might
she keep his love, his respect, his homage
for ever, even if she were the innocent
means of separating him from his family !
Lady Wandsworth had noticed their
leaving the room, and, since they continued
absent, she felt sure that the man she
had once so truly loved was pleading his
cause with success. She could not fail to
be touched, and happily with thankfulness
un tinged with pain. When a third dance
was about to begin, and when she saw her
fair guest's absence was causing remark,


she herself went to the library, having a
sort of intuitive knowledge that she would
find them in that deserted, quiet room.

The culprits rose smiling, and both
looked most outrageously happy, though a
fine colour glowed on the lady's cheek.

*' Dear Lady Wandsworth," said Maynard,
smiling, " allow me to introduce my
future wife to you. She has long kept mein
suspense, but at length I have her
promise."

*' I am so glad ; I have been expecting
this," she returned, smiling on the blushing
Dorcas.

"' May I hope, dear Venetia," and now
his voice was low and husky, *' that you
will receive and love one so very dear tome?"


I do  I do, Hubert. I think I have
always loved you, Dorcas," she replied, as
she tenderly kissed the now agitated

girl. " You have won a loyal heart," she
murmured.

Ah, I know it well, dear Lady Wandsworth,"
returned Dorcas, very low.

People are wondering where you are.
I suppose you are quite ignorant that two
or three dances are over," said Yenetia,
trying to leave the emotional side of the
question.

'' I am afraid we have forgotten all
about them ; and really I was engaged to
Miss Luttrell," said Maynard, laughing
lightly. '' What possible excuse can I
make?"

Perhaps she will forgive you if I give
her a hint of the truth," said Yenetia,
smiling.

'eyes, but that will be telling everybody,"
he said ruefully, pulling his moustache.
" I confess I should like to get out
of the house first, you know. People

always make such a tremendous fuss about
an affair of this kind."

You must both know that it is an
open secret now," she returned, laughing
a little.

Is it ? I thought I had been so very
careful ! "

Careful !' when these last two days
you have exhibited all the amiable and
unamiable moods of the tender passion?"

Ah ! I will admit a man is hardly
himself when he is in love."

May I ask what your plans are ? "

'' Dorcas will tell you to-night when you
have that confidential little chat. Now I
will go to Miss Luttrell. The last valse
is mine, you know, Dorcas," he said, leaving
them.

Have I done right?" asked Dorcas.

'' Undoubtedly ; you must tell your father
that the fault of your broken promise lies

with me, dear. You must be very happy
now it is all settled," said Yenetia, looking
very thoughtfully into the beautiful face,
which, with all its happiness, expressed
some doubt as well.

I am only too happy ; but you know all
he must lose for my sake. I am tired of
balancing the question. At one time compliance
has seemed right to me, at another
time wrong. Now I have promised, wrongly
or rightly. I  oh ! dear Lady Wandsworth,
you believe that I have striven todo
the best for his sake, don't you ? "

Don't be distressed, dear. I honour
you for your long resistance. I feel you
must so often have been sorely tempted to
give way. Why should you be so fearful
now ? Trust your lover in all. He is
worthy of a woman's trust, of her sweetest
love. Dorcas ! almost from his earliest
boyhood he has been my intimate friend ;

and in all these long years I have never
found him unworthy. Faults, of course,
he possesses, like all of us; and he has
made some unhappy mistakes from passionate
impulse, but his heart is ever loyal,
ever honourable. You know  you know,
dear"  here she took the other's hands 
what his greatest fault was  forgive me
if I wound you. At first I could only
think of the noble lady, who was, alas !
far more bereft than he, I trust, will ever
imagine she was. He never loved her.
Probably their marriage would have been
most unhappy. You are the only woman
he has ever loved. You have won much,
and he  I will not say to you what he bas
won," smiling very sweetly, while heavy
tears followed each other in quick succession.
*' Dorcas, may you and he ever
possess the same sweet affection and trust
as now !  let nothing come between you ; a

happy marriage means that husband and
wife must be one. Do you understand ?
And however proud a woman may be,
she can only find happiness by complete
obedience to her husband."

A very tender embrace followed, and
then Lady Wandsworth took her guest to
her dressing-room to remove the traces
of tears before they returned to the critical
world.

It may be imagined how powerfully
Dorcas felt that half-confession from the
gracious lady, who had rarely looked so
beautiful as she did at that moment.

Dorcas understood it all.

After Captain Maynard had made his
peace with Miss Luttrell, he hurried to his
room, and, unlocking his dressing-case,
took from it a very precious brilliant ring,
which had long been in his possession,
and which now was to pass to the

slender hand until then innocent of any
ring.

It was three o'clock on Tuesday morning
before the last valse was over, and the
proud, happy lover slipped that flashing
ring on his betrothed' s finger, with many
sweet words and passionate vows. Then
good-night and farewell until Saturday.

Long before most of Lady Wandsworth's
guests vere awake, Dorcas was at breakfast,
preparatory to leaving the pleasant,
hospitable castle. She had bidden the
kind, gracious countess farewell a few hours
previously, when she had also confided to
her all the projects of the ensuing fortnight.


So her delightful visit was over !

What a time of charming new experiences
it had been ! and now she was actually
engaged, and had promised to be married
the following week !

She was far too excited to eat any
breakfast, and soon was off in a carriage,
with the faithful Sarah, who certainly
thoroughly appreciated the good things
of the castle, and was somewhat loth to
leave such comfortable quarters.

As they drove alone in the fresh bright
morning, what a crowd of thoughts filled
our heroine's brain, one thing after another,
and with each there was the same sweet
thrill of happiness !

Was it all true ? or was she dreaming ?
Then she touched her left hand and felt
that magic ring : like a child, she w anted
something tangible to convince her.

She had engaged her old rooms at the
Bull," and had no sooner entered the
sitting-room, than she received a warm
welcome from Madame Saroni, who had
come to witness what she hoped would be
her pupil's triumph. With all her kindness

of disposition, Madame was somewhat
of a disciplinarian, and had not altogether
approved of Dorcas's visit to the castle
before her great trial took place. Madame
argued that the feasting and gaiety should
have succeeded that event. So, after a
little chat, Dorcas was put through the
music she was to sing that morning, and
Madame appeared fairly satisfied.

It may here be said that Dorcas more
than came up to what her instructress
expected from her. To use an odd expression,
she was quite out of herself. She
sang without the least feeling of nervousness.
Something within her impelled her
to sing as she had rarely sung. It was
the freedom of her spirit, the fulness of
joy, the rejoicing of her heart. So, in all
she had to perform, she acquitted herself
well, though it was all to her as some
delightful dream.

The news of her romantic engagement
had spread with wonderful rapidity among
the guests at the castle, and from them it
passed into other channels, and consequently
she was the mark of universal
attention when she was singing.

Madame Saroni had of course learned
the truth from Dorcas herself ; and though
she entered with real feeling into the
question of her pupil's future, still she
sorrowfully regretted that, in this instance,
fate had removed such a promising soprano
from the profession.

But Thursday was Dorcas's grand day,
for she sang in both the " Hymn of Praise "
and the " Stabat Mater." In the second
seats there arrived early a fine, hale old
man, in spotless blue coat and drab
breeches, and a remarkably nice-looking
dame, dressed with the perfection of neatness
and quiet taste. They were so

nice-looking that they attracted much
attention, but people did not know they
were the father and mother of the beautiful
young singer, of whom every one
was talking.

The previous night a tall, rather grim-looking
old gentleman arrived at the
already crowded "Bull;" but this old
gentleman's room had been ordered for
some weeks, and it happened to be next
our heroine's.

After some slight refreshment in the
coffee-room Sir William Maynard was proceeding
to bed, when there was suddenly
some commotion in the hotel. The concert
at the Shire Hall was over, and audience
and singers were returning. Sir William,
knowing Dorcas was staying at the hotel,
waited in the hall with the hope of seeing
her come in amongst the other people. He
had to wait some time, as carriage after

carriage drove up, and people either passed
into the coffee-room for supper, or upstairs.
Waiters were dashing about in their marvellous
manner, holding dishes in what
appeared to be almost impossible ways.
The baronet found he was only one of
many visitors who were lingering in the
hall for some purpose. Presently Monsieur
and Madame Saroni appeared, looking very
pleased and jubilant ; with them came a
young lady. Sir William started a little
when he saw this young lady. She was
smiling and chatting to her companions,
and, indeed, looked very radiant and lovely.
A delicate, refined woman, and of rare
beauty, thought he with unwilling admiration
and surprise. The flowers in her hair
were still fresh; her delicate colour was
heightened by the ovation she had just
received ; she held the train of her dress
over her arm, and a soft white shawl concealed

all bat her throat and head.
The voice which Sir William heard was
beautiful, soft, and full, with perfect
intonation. As she passed through the
admiring crowd, she caught his eyes fixed
upon her. His stern glance surprised her ;
but her own was equally haughty and
grave, as she swept by him upstairs. He
followed her, and was not ill-pleased to
find she was his neighbour on one side.
But her friends took her away to sup with
them, and just as Sir William was dropping
off into his first sleep, he heard subdued
voices, a low laugh, distinct kissing, and
then a door locked. He breakfasted in
the coffee-room, but, though it was filled,
no Miss Finch appeared. People all round
him were talking of the previous day's
music, and the comparative merits of the
different singers. How often he had
heard Dorcas eulogized ! Every one from

Carstone and the neighbourhood, who
could possibly afford a ticket, was in
Eastminster Cathedral that morning.

Miss Fleming, now in slight mourning,
was once more in her rightful place among
the people with whom a few years back
the Flemings held their own. Edith came
prepared to enjoy the music, to witness
her dear one's triumph, and to say in that
sacred place, where she had knelt in almost
despair, " So He bringeth them into the
haven where they would be."

Edith had accepted an invitation from
Mrs. Molyneux to lunch at the palace, and
there she would meet the castle party and
at length exchange a few words with her
old friend. Lady Wandsworth.

The first moments of leisure that Dorcas
possessed, when she returned from the
concert on Tuesday evening, were devoted
to a long letter to Edith, who was

VOL. in. p

strangely touched by the writer's outburst
of confidence in the realization of her
happiness.

Miss Fleming, when she followed one of
the stewards, who happened to be Lord
Wandsworth, to her place in the nave, felt
wonderfully happy. Two years ago she
had thought in her bitter despair that all
the sweeter interests of life were dead,
that never again would she wear a jewel 
never again be stirred by other than the
sorrows of the wonderful world lying near
and around her. She had forgotten that
at twenty-five the best part of a woman's
life is but beginning. Perhaps this day,
with the aids of experience, suffering, and
of love of the nobler kind, a greater and
more expansive ideal of what life might be,
must be still, came to this high-minded
woman. Since happiness has returned to
her, she has become handsomer ; the careworn

expression is gone, and she is to
all a very charming lady, whose serenity
and command proclaim the true and
tranquil spirit which guides her useful life.
In that vast and magnificent edifice,,
how many are interested in the lovely
woman whose very voice seems to rejoice
as she sings ! Sir William Maynard finds
an unbidden and yet, perhaps, not unwelcome
tear in his eyes, as he listens to-the
sweet, pure voice. Edith looks 
her darling with a smile, and then lets
all the exquisite joy of perfected hope come
over her, as she, too, listens, trembling a
little. The yeoman is very pale ; the
whole occasion is almost too much for him.
He can hardly realize that it is his child,
his little maid, who is guiding such grand
melody in the presence of such illustrious
dead and living. He turns wonderingly
to his wife ; but the mother's face is hidden
p 2

in her hands. E/Guben, near them, hastens
too. He has heard intelligence of which
the father and mother are still ignorant ;
but, loyal though Reuben is, that news is
somewhat of a blow.

Lord Anstruther soon espied his old
friend Sir William Maynard, and, when
one and all left the cathedral in search of
luncheon, he tried to persuade him to join
Lady Wandsworth's party at the palace ;
but instead Sir William insisted on taking
Lord Anstruther to the " Bull," and when
there the latter told him some news that
scarcely surprised him. He was somewhat
mollified when he learnt that Dorcas had
been a guest with others at the castle,
and that her engagement had taken place
there.

It may be imagined that Lord Anstruther
pleaded very hard, and was deeply pained
to find his old friend unmoved by his

pleadings. Sir William heard him very
quietly, and said very little, except that
Captain Maynard must accept the consequences
of his disobedience and folly;
and when they returned to the cathedral,
the kind ambassador felt he had failed in
his mission. And Sir William scrutinized
Dorcas with those powerful eye-glasses of
his, as anger, regret, and liking strove
within his heart.

Dorcas entertained her father and mother
in her own room before they returned.
What a delightful occasion it was to her ! 
and on the morrow she was going home.
Her lover had sent her two most delightful
letters since their brief separation. A few
heartfelt words and a warm embrace from
Edith seemed to fill up the measure of her
happiness.

Mother dear," said she on Friday
evening, when she was again at her beloved

home, now in all the quiet, tender beauty
of the early autumn, " I expect that a
friend of mine will very likely come here
tomorrow and stay until Monday, or
perhaps longer."

You don't mean to say so, my dear !
I am sure any of your kind friends are
heartily welcome ; but, my dear, I have
not got much in the house, except poultry
and game, 'cause I know that's more a
treat to you."

'' What could you have better, you kind,
hospitable mother ? "

*' And who is your friend, my dear ? I
hope 'isn't a very smart lady. You see
I ain't used to company, my dear."

'' I think I had better not tell you
who it is at present ; after all, my friend
may be prevented from coming."

I suppose the lady won't be here
until the afternoon, and will she come to

dinner, mj dear ? if so I'll have another
couple of chickens killed."

'' No, my friend won't be here until
seven o'clock, I expect."

Does she bring a maid, my dear ? I
can't say as I like those fine ladies'-maids
about the kitchen. Your Sarah is a nice,
comfortable, sensible body ; but I should
not like to have a stranger peering about
everywhere."

'' My friend won't bring a maid, mother
dear," said Dorcas with the happy smile
lingering on her sweet, blushing face,
while she wondered what her kind mother
would say when she learned who that expected
guest was.

'' Shall I send into Eastminster by the
carrier for anything extra ; he'd bring out
some fish for Sunday's dinner."

*' No, no, dear mother, you have
quite enough in the house to make a feast.

And then, as I said, my friend might not
come."

However, Mrs. Finch was not satisfied
until she had despatched the boy with a
note to the carrier, containing some orders.
Presently the yeoman returned from his
walk of inspection round the premises
before going to bed.

'* Dorcas has a friend coming tomorrow,
William."

*' Eh, my dear, have you? I am sure
the lady is welcome. I'd do anything to
return some of the kindness they have
shown you. How is your larder, Susan ? 
but 'tis bad to find you are unprovided."

With some address Dorcas had kept
her flashing ring from sight, but now she
had forgotten it, and the firelight made it
flash right into her father's eyes.

Eh, my dear, but what a ring you've
got  a diamond, surely ?'' he exclaimed.

'* Why, it kind of dazzled me just now;
and who gave ye that, now ? "

One of my kind friends," she returned,
feeling her colour varying, as she held out
her hand to let her father and mother
inspect her treasure.

Something seemed to strike her father ;
for he suddenly looked into her face as if
to ask a question, but remained silent and
grave.

Soon they said good-night, and Dorcas
was once more alone in her room. Oh,
she thought, if her father only knew !
To-morrow she must tell him all  would
he forgive her ?

It was late before she could sleep, for
indeed the greatest events of her life were
crowded into the space of a few days.
Good Mrs. Finch was up earlier than
usual, busied with her hospitable cares.
The sacred cupboards were opened. The

large, airy guest-chamber, with its complete
furnishing of black oak, had a huge
fire lighted in the large grate ; and blankets
and sheets were presently airing, while the
soft-footed mistress gave her orders in a
subdued voice, "lest Miss Dorcas should
be awakened."

CHAPTER Vir.

Oh, Lord that lends me life,
Lend me a heart replete with thankfulness ! "
Henry VI., Act i. Sc. 1.

Lord of my love, to whom in vassalage
Thy merit hath my duty strongly knit."

Shakespeare, Sonnet 26.

After a somewhat cloudy morning the
sun broke through the haze, and when
Mr. Finch said he would take his gun and
see if he could not knock over a few
partridges, Dorcas felt her opportunity
was come.

'let me go with you, father; it will
seem like old times."

What ! you want to walk through the

stubble and turnips, my dear? Why,
they are as wet as a pond this time of the
morning."

'' Oh, but I have capital thick boots,
and 1 won't disturb you."

"What do you say, mother?" asked
he. 'ris not the ground too wet for
her?"

Well, 'tis wet surely ; but, dearie, you
can change when you come in. A walk
this nice fresh morning 'uU do you good."

You must keep to the paths on the
headlands, then, and be as quiet as a
mouse."

So they set out with two pointers, Dash
and Duke, taking the same route through
the pastures that Dorcas had that summer
evening when she went to meet her lover.
When they reached the great ash the past
recurred with something of its old pain.

Her father, attracted by a noise in the

reeds and sedgy banks of the river, stopped
by those memorable railings.

Hush, Dorcas ! " lie whispered, '' I
believe it's that dashed otter that's destroying
all the fish in this part of the
river."

So they stood, side by side, watching,
and she was painfully wishing she could
begin her story. However, there was no
further appearance of the cause of the
commotion in the flags, whatever it may
have been.

' I'd like to trap or shoot that beast.
There won't be a decent fish left in the
river soon. Now, let us step out to the
thirty acres. Why, you look very pale,
my dear. Is the walking too much for
you?"

No, no, I like it, thank you, father."

*' Take my arm a bit, my dear ; I expect
the road is a trifle rough, after London

streets,"  smiling. " Dear, dear, how
often you put me in mind of your dear
Aunt Milicent !  you seem to have all her
pretty ways and looks. Just to think,
now, that my little maid has become a
great singer, and sung before the Queen !
Dear, though, I can scarcely believe it.
And when is poor Reuben to take his
wife home, my dear ? " said he, looking
very earnestly into her face, where the
colour changed from red to white with
quick transition.

I can never be Reuben's wife, dear
father''

Why not, my dear ?  surely a better
man never stepped on God's earth, and
he's been faithful to you all these years.
Ay, you know what sort of a friend he's
been to you. Just think of two years
agone, when he stood by you and dared
the folks to say a word against you."

Yes, I know I can never repay him,
or Miss Fleming, for all their wonderful
goodness ; but, father dear, I can never
marry Reuben."

They had stopped just by a stile leading
into a noble beech and pine wood.

Has that villain so injured your life
that you cannot return an honest man's
love ? " he asked sternly, and very pale.

Do not call him a villain ; he 

*' Dorcas, do you love him still ?"

Yes," she said faintly.

'* Have you broken your promise to me ?
Have you met him ? "

Yes."

*' And he has dared to tempt ye again ?
May Almighty God  "

Hush, father ! do not dare to curse him.
I  have promised to be his wife."

You have promised to be his wife ? "
he repeated, bewildered, while a rapid

flush passed over his face, and left him
trembling, and deadly pale. He leaned on
the stile for support, for he had received
a blow.

'' When did you promise him ? "
Last Monday. Father, forgive me ! "
My dear, my dear, you must ask forgiveness
from God. You have broken
your solemn word to me before Him," he
said, leaning heavily on the gate. Then
she pathetically touched his arm.

I kept my promise until last Saturday ;
then I was obliged to break it, because
Captain Maynard was also at Wandsworth
Castle ; but, father, I never knew he would
be there. Lady Wandsworth wished me
to tell you that she was innocently the
cause of my breaking my promise to you.
Then  then he asked me to be his wife.
I refused him at first, but when he spoke
again I could not. I thought it was even

wrong to reject him any longer, because
lie loved me so. Do you understand,
father?"

Yes, my dear, I understand," lie replied
in a low tone. " But has Captain
Maynard got his uncle's consent to his
marriage to you, my dear ? "

No, father dear ; Sir William will
never consent."

I thought as much," said he, and
wounded pride sent a flush of pain across
his fine face. 'tis only in nature he
should be all against such a marriage.
But is not the captain quite dependent on
his uncle  I mean, he's got no property
of his own, has he ? "

'' I believe he is quite dependent."

Then how does he think to keep a
wife, my dear, if he quarrels with his
uncle ?  for, ye know, ye can't live on
love."

VOL. III. Q

He wants to get some appointment, or
to emigrate."

Ay, but such things are hard to get,
when one is in want of them. And so
Captain Maynard has just thrown all his
inheritance away, because he loves you, my
child ! T\\ acknowledge I've not done him
justice. I ha*" many a time had hard, bitter
thoughts of him, because of you, but
I'll ask his pardon and say he's a noble
gentleman now. But, Dorcas, have ye
considered how much he must lose ? What
can he do to gain his livelihood now he's
left the army, and when the world will be
against him, because he's quarrelled with
his uncle?"

Father, he has decided between me
and  and aU."

Ay, my darling ; but you feel as 'twill
be a sacrifice for him, too ? And, Dorcas,
are ye not too proud to enter such a high

family and be scorned ?  for scorned yeare
unless ye are received with welcome."


'' I must consider his happiness before
my own pride. Father dear, you remember
what  what occurred two years ago, when
you were so angry with me, thinking 
wrongly of Hubert's love for me. I
perhaps ought to have told you that he
entreated me to be his wife in Reuben's
hearing; but I could not consent then to a
private marriage, because I thought he 
he might perhaps return to Edith if I was
firm in my refusal."

*' Why did you not tell me ? You would
have spared me many a hard thought of
him, dear, though how I ha' misjudged
him ! "

Father, I was too full of shame and
grief, because I felt I was not sa innocent
as I ought to have been. T  had some
2

what tempted Mm, but I did aot know how
terrible the temptation had been until too
late. Ah, how I have suffered ! But I
have loved him from the first. You condemned
him, thinking his affection for mean
unworthy passion, when even then he
was true ; for he went to his uncle and
told him the whole story. Sir William
said that if he married me he must lose
Carrington, his inheritance. Hubert told
him I was dearer than Carrington,
and that he would marry me when I
consented. Father, I refused him time
after time. I refused to see him, to meet
him, because I dared not break my promise
to you, and because I grieved to be the
reason of his making such a sacrifice.
When I met him, when I heard him last
week, and last Monday, I could reject him
no longer. Why should I, when  when I
I love him, too ? "

*' Ay, the Finches were ever constant,"
he said huskily.

'' Father, father, you have forgiven him;
forgive us both now," she said entreatingly.


Ay, ay, my darling ; but, oh ! how I
do wish he'd been a free man when he met
you. How can I ever forget as you, my
darling, made him break his word to dear
Miss Edith ? 'Tis that as hurts me so.
The whole thing seems wrong somehow.
It begun wrong two years ago ; and, though
he has acted nobly in keeping faithful to
you, still, my dear, ye'll never forget as
your happiness a kind of comes out of
others' troubles, for there's dear Miss
Edith, and there's poor Reuben, and
there's poor Sir William, too, for that
matter  for how could he possibly agree t6
such a thing ? What am I to say to it ?
Will your husband's love last when he

finds he's scouted instead o' being flattered?
when he finds the hard bite of
poverty, instead of luxurious wealth ? I
say he's an honourable, faithful gentleman,
who, if he made a bad slip, has tried his
best to undo it ; but, my darling, 'twould
want almost an angel from heaven to bear
ill-luck without complaint."

You see I did my best to keep my
promise," she said, smiling through her
tears.

Yes, my pretty maid ; I always felt as
you'd try hard to keep your word. But
come now, we had tears enough two years
back ; so cheer up. I must see the
captain before I can quite make up my
mind."

'' But  but, father dear, I  I have
promised to marry him next Thursday."

Next Thursday ! Why, 'tis just impossible,
child ! "

'' Hubert is going to get a special
licence," she returned, blushing deeply,
while her eyes sought the ground.

Next Thursday ! you take my breath
away. Whatever will your poor mother
say and do ? 'twill upset her, this sudden
news,"

*' Father, you  you consent, don't

you?"

Faith, my dear, I think the captain
has just taken it before 'twas given ! But
don't you look so anxious. I'll  I'll be
no hindrance to your happiness ; but ye
have surprised me ! A wedding on Thursday,
and this Saturday ! "

I want to send into Exton very much. I
want to send a telegram to Hubert, to  to
say he may come to-night."

*' Oh, oh, oh ! so he's the lady-friend, is
he, as was to come ? Ay, now, I begin to
understand," laughed the old man, while

Dorcas looked extremely confused, and
also extremely lovely in lier embarrassment.


I did not say it was a lady ; I said
a friend of mine."

Well, anyhow, there's no time to lose.
You get back, my dear, and send Dick off
on the mare, and I'll try for a partridge
or two before I come ; and by that time
ye'll have had time to tell your mother.
It'll all be a wonderful surprise to her;
but she always said as you would marry
a gentleman."

Father, you will love Hubert for
my sake ; you know you did like him so
before  before  ' '

Then she suddenly burst into tears.

Why, Dorcas, my dear, ye must not
cry now. Do you think I'd give you to
Captain Maynard unless I liked him and
respected him ? No, no ; things are all

changed now lie's going to wed you like
an honest man. I have no right to prevent
him, though I may think he's paying
dear for being so faithful. Come, come ;
do you think your old dad would stand in
the way now ? Run home and set all
things right there, my dear, and don't
let's have any more crying; and tell your
mother to get a downright good supper for
the captain," he said, kissing her fondly,
and walking briskly off ; but his head was
in a whirl.

A marriage by special licence on Thursday
! Why, such a hurried wedding had
never been heard of in Carstone ! For
some time he stood in deep thought, forgetting
all about the partridges, while the
pointers lay at his feet, watching his face
and waiting as patiently as they could.
He was in a measure deeply gratified, but
he was also greatly hurt. That Maynard

had cleared himself and proved so true
touched him keenly; but there was the
noble lady, bereft by his own child. The
yeoman felt the hysteric lump in his throat
and the burning tears in his eyes, as he
thought of Edith ; and his beloved child
had done this wrong ! It was all too late
to regret or to grieve. The old man
reverently bared his head, and pleaded
fervently for forgiveness for his darling's
fault, and for a blessing on her and on
Edith, with "the peace which passeth all
understanding."

Meanwhile Dorcas soon reached home,
wrote out her telegram, despatched Dick
with it, and then sought her mother. She
found Mrs. Finch in the best bedroom,
where bed, mattress, and pillows were all
in process of being aired, though in that
well-ordered, comfortable house there was
not much fear of their being damp.

Why, my dear, I did not expect you
back yet awhile. I thought as I'd get all
this straight before you returned."

You will make yourself tired, mother
dear. Now sit down and rest ; I want to
talk to you. I will finish this presently.
What a pretty, old room this is ! " she
exclaimed, subsiding into a great old-fashioned
chair, in which many of her
forefathers had passed their last days.

Mrs. Finch a little nervously took another
chair. Dorcas was absently regarding
her beautiful ring.

Mother dear, it's  it's not a lady who's
coming to-night, it's a gentleman," she
said, looking up with a smile.

'' A gentleman ! Oh, Dorcas ! who is
it ? " said the poor mother with great
agitation.

*' Can't you guess who it is?" said
Dorcas, trying to smile through her tears.

'' Mj dear, my dear, I can only think
of one ; it's Captain Maynard, isn't
it?"

"Yes, mother; I am engaged to him,"
she returned softly, lingering and dwelling
on the simple words which told such a
wonderful happiness.

I thought so when I saw that ring, but
I didn't like to ask ; I knew you' d tell me
when I ought to know."

'' I ought to have told you before.
Oh, mother ! I have not been so good a
daughter as I ought to have been."

Who ever had a dearer child ? Dorcas,
if only you had a lady for your mother,
instead of a poor body like me, who never
had much education ! " exclaimed she,
with something of passion for so calm a
woman.

Dearest mother, don't speak like that,
unless you wish to break my heart. I

think I never loved and respected you as
I do now."

I must speak so, dear. I know how
against sou 'tis that me and jour dear
father ain't gentlefolk. You take after
your poor Aunt Milicent ; you are more
her child than mine, and yet, Dorcas, / am
your mother, and I always feel as if I could
not love you enough, or do enough for
you, my dear. But I'll never shame
you. You must leave us altogether.
"We'll be happy if we know as you are
happy."

*' Mother," said she, throwing herself in
her mother's arms, '' I want your love now
more than ever. Don't speak of separation.
So you thought it was not impossible
? " she said presently.

*' When I heard how dear Miss Edith's
engagement was broken off, I knew how
'twould be, for I knew you'd never change

and I thought he'd keep true, because he
was a gentleman."

But when he marries me he Loses
everything ; his uncle disinherits him."

Ay, I daresay Sir William says so ;
but I'll never believe it for all that. I
know the old gentleman loves his nephew,
and he won't cut off his nose to spite his
face, not he, my dear. But your father, I
know he must have been surprised; he
never thought of such a thing, for, oh, my
dear, he thought the captain was a villain,
and I never dared to speak a word for
him."

Father has forgiven us both now, and
consented ; but I have another surprise for
you. I have promised that our wedding
shall be next Thursday."

This last intelligence was more startling
to good Mrs. Finch than the first, and she
expressed herself as being '' quite dumb-founded."

Dorcas went through the garden
and gathered a few late flowers to decorate
the rooms. On that tea-rose, which
possessed a very tender interest for her,
some beautiful buds still remained, but
they were far out of her reach. She
smiled and thought her lover would gather
them for her on the morrow. The return
telegram had come : 

'* I hope to be with you at seven. I
shall take a fly from the station."

The time that afternoon seemed to hang
unaccountably to Dorcas, but at length
the dusk came and seven o'clock drew
nearer. Something about the arrangement
of the supper-table in the hall reminded
her of another occasion. Then she thought
of a lady not far away, sitting lonely
at her dinner. Well might she lay her
hand upon her heart to still the pang
which shot through her at the remembrance.

Then lie wondered if Hubert
had ever suspected the truth. For Edith's
sake she hoped he never might ; in her
loyal affection, in her reverence for her
kind friend, she thought that truth would
be best unknown. As her father had
said, her happiness must ever appear to
have been purchased at the expense of
others.

Standing alone by the blazing hearth, she
found it difficult indeed to realize that soon
her lover would be there, and that they
were to part no more. Then restless,
almost agitated by the thought of
her solemn responsibilities, she went
into the great parlour, which was lighted
only by the cheerful fire. Her father's
words returned again and again. It was
a sacrifice for him  a terrible one ; but
surely his uncle would in time forgive him,
and not let his proud, generous spirit be

crushed by poverty. Thinking of her
lover's renunciation for her sake, she
wondered, with burning tears in her eyes,
and love so great in her heart that it was
akin to anguish, how she should repay so
great and so precious a trust. She felt
the most implicit confidence in his judgment.
She even thought him right when
he insisted that she must give up her profession
entirely. He told her with manly
tenderness that he must be the breadwinner;
she must belong alone to the
inner sacred life of home ; it was there her
duty would lie. It was his duty and his
privilege to provide that home for her.
Presently she heard voices in the hall.
Her father and mother had come down.
When she joined them, and met their kind
eyes, she thought few people were so
blessed in their parents as she was. The
old people were nervous and disturbed by

VOL. III. lithe

strange and unexpected turn events
lead taken.

Hephzibali, who brought in something
for the table, looked fondly at Dorcas, and
then there was a sound of wheels.

There's the fly, my dear," said her
father. '' I'll go out and meet the
captain."

Poor Mrs. Finch was white and trembling.


*' I'll be better presently, dear, when
he's here."

When Dorcas heard his voice, her doubts,
her nervous apprehensions, vanished like
shadows, and, though very pale, she said,
smiling, 

He is come, dearest mother ; your 
your son."

Then he was there by the yeoman's side,
and came quickly forward to Mrs. Finch.

'rit is good of you to receive me like

this without question," he said in a low
voice, and looking into her kind face while
he held her hand.

God bless you, sir," she returned very
softly.

Amen," said Hephzibah, who with
Sarah was just inside the door. Then
with misty eyes he turned to his beloved,
and kissed her tenderly.

Have you taken up Captain Maynard's
luggage, Hephzibah ? " asked Mrs. Finch,
to divert attention from the blushing
Dorcas. " Perhaps you'd like to step upto
your room, sir, and wash your hands
before supper ? I'll show you the way
when the maids have got your luggage
up."

Presently, when Mrs. Finch returned
from taking her guest to his room, she
found Dorcas absent from the hall.

'' It does all seem so strange, I can't
H 2

make it out a bit,  can you, mother?"
said the poor yeoman, " that ever that
grand gentleman should come to us for his
wife ? Ay, but I don't wonder she loves
him. What a handsome couple they are,
to be sure. But he's more than handsome
; he's got such sweet lovable ways
about him, for all he's so proud. I seem
somehow to like him all the more, because
I ha' misjudged him. Ay, I thought his
liking for Dorcas was a different sort from
this ; but here's the captain coming downstairs
; ring the bell, my dear, for the
supper, even a man desperate in love as he
may be enjoys a nice tender partridge and
a glass o' wine that I don't think Sir
William could better."

For the yeoman had brought out a bottle
of rare Madeira, one of the few bottles left
from some which had long lain in the
cellar. Then Maynard was in the hall.

and, coming forward, naturally looked
round for some one who was not there.

'' Dorcas is in the parlour, captain,"
said the yeoman with a smile. " Supper
will be in in a few minutes ; ye must bring
her in then, or the birds will be spoiled "

He wanted no second bidding, appreciating
the delicacy of the old man in thus
giving him a few precious moments alone
with his darling.

Dorcas was standing by the fire ; soon
she was close to his heart. Five minutes,
ten minutes passed, the supper was there,
but there was no appearance of the
principal guests.

Shall I knock at the door, William?
'tis a pity as it should all get cold."

'' I don't know," said he absently ;
wife, does it put ye in mind of old times ?
Ay, but I'd rather ha' had a kiss from you
than all the suppers in the world."

"Well, but Captain Maynard must be
wanting bis supper ; I think as I'll just go
and tell them 'tis waiting," said the
anxious hospitable hostess, completely and
most innocently ignoring ber husband's
tender recollections.

They returned with ber ; and even Mrs.
Fincb was gratified, when sbe saw bow
thoroughly Maynard appreciated the dainty
supper.

Under the influence of bis happiness,
be became something like the Maynard
of old, only a nobler, wiser man. Dorcas
listened to bim almost bewildered; this
coming borne, this wonderful realization
of what bad for so long seemed impossible,
made ber a silent member of that happy
quarter. Content ! ay, more than content
for ber self ; but  but there were
others. Her lover understood ber mood ;
it pleased bim far more to see ber grave

and thoughtful], than too jocund, on the eve
of lier new life.

They were sitting opposite to each
other, and, whenever he wished, he could
satisfy his soul with the sight of her delicate
beauty, or meet her eyes expressive
of proud, tender regard.

After Mrs. Finch and Dorcas had gone
to bed, Maynard laid the whole state of
his affairs before the yeoman, who certainly
felt his comparative poverty hard
just then, when he must let his only
daughter go empty-handed to her husband.
He spoke in a very manly way to his
guest, putting before him all the difficulties
which he mast encounter by his
opposition to his uncle's wishes, and
touched with much delicacy on the broken
engagement to Edith. Then Maynard
opened his heart and gave his version ;
and ended by convincing the yeoman

that what was, was best. It was late
before they said good-night ; but the
two men parted much pleased with each
other.

After breakfast the next morning the
young people went out into the bright
sunshine, and walked all round the pleasant
old garden, now touched with the early
autumn. His arm was round her, as they
walked bareheaded in the sweet, soft air;
presently they reached the climbing tea-rose
; there she stopped.

Do you remember ? " she asked with
a smile, and clasping his arm with her
hands.

Yes, I remember. I often wondered
if the thorn left a scar, but I never dared
to take your hand to look for it."

Yes, there is a scar. Ah ! how I have
treasured it; thinking sometimes that it
was all I  I  you may look at it now,"

holding up the lovely hand and wrist, over
which he bent smiling.

Finish your sentence."

'No, it would make you too conceited."

Ah ! there is a very, very little scar.
It was very cruel of me to have hurt
such an exquisite wrist."

Hubert, I  I believe I loved you from
that moment."

Such a charming confession prompted
some acknowledgment from Captain
Maynard.

'' No, no," cried Dorcas, smiling and
blushing, as she disengaged herself, " someone
might be looking."

*' I don't care if all the world is looking,
my sweet one."

*' Now, don't be foolish, but pick me
some of those beautiful buds; you can
easily reach them, and, as a reward, you
shall have the best for a button-hole."

The branch that did all the mischief
is pruned away, then ; you ought to have
kept it, if you had such tender memories
of it. There, these are enough for today."


How she had been watching him,
her heart beating with all a woman's
tender pride of possession in this stately
lover ! He was struck by her sweet
expression. It was one he had often
pictured and longed to see, and now it
was there.

How very lovely you are !  you seem
to grow more exquisite to me with each
hour," he said in a low, half-wondering
tone.

"Do I?"

Dorcas, are you quite happy ? " he
asked a little gravely.

Is it possible you can doubt it ? "

But sometimes, dear, I can see you

are anxious about something; what is
it?"

'' I cannot always forget how much you
are giving up for me."

CHAPTER VIII.

Fairest Cornelia, that art most rich, being poor,
Most choice, forsaken, and most loved, despised I "
King Lear, Act i. Sc. 1.

The private wound is deepest."

Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act v. Sc. 4.

When Captain Maynard and Dorcas were
indulging in romance that peaceful Sunday
morning, Edith Fleming received
two letters which very much interested
her. One was from Dorcas, who had
written it late the previous night after
she had bidden her lover farewell ;
and it had been written with tears, even
in the midst of her happiness ! And as
Edith reads, how calm and sweet and

noble a woman she looks, especially when
the letter is finished, and she smiles as
she quietly brushes some tears from her
own eyes. And then, still holding the
letter, she falls back into old memories ;
old pain lived down; old wounds mercifully
healed ; until she can this day meet
the man who was once dearer than all
others with the serene heart of perfect
friendship. Love him, she must ever ;
but her love now and for long had comprehended
Dorcas as part with it.

The other letter was of a most surprising
and romantic nature. It was from
Monsieur Sabine, the French lawyer and
adviser of the late Comtesse de ,
and its intelligence read like a
romance. A well-authenticated descendant
of the lost Bene de Gardemesnil
had laid a claim to the estates. Monsieur
Sabine said his own opinion was that

the claimant was undoubtedly a great-grandson
of the lost nobleman, though
the name had been Americanized into
Guardsmen." But there was much
mystery still concerning the fate of
Rene himself; and certain events seemed
to point to some deep dishonour on his
name, or some misfortune ; for his son had
left Canada abruptly, and, renouncing his
aristocratic title, had sought a home in
Virginia, then a most flourishing state.
Here the son appeared to have married
the daughter of a well-to-do planter,
and in course of time became himself a
man of substance. Though he had renounced
his paternal name, he still kept
secretly and with jealous care certain
documents and letters which would prove
at any future time his descent. But the
strange part was that he made no confidant
of his secret, and, dying from an accident.

tried in vain to make his wife and son
understand.

So the secret remained locked within
a little shabby, inch-worn, iron-clamped
box, which remained for years unnoticed
in a lumber-room. The family were incomplete
ignorance that they were even
of French extraction ; and they continued
to be fairly prosperous in their Virginian
home as growers of cotton and tobacco,
and owners of slaves, until the fierce
struggle began between the Northern and
Southern States. That terrible war was
almost complete ruin to the devoted
family. A father and four brave sons
fell fighting for their home and their
rights.

A widow and a son of fifteen were all
that were left at the desolated, destroyed
plantation; and when the war was over,
these two were glad to sell their once

beautiful estate to an Englishman, and
then again these last De Gardemesnils
turned their faces to the south-west, and
found a new home in California. The
old shabby box in the lumber-room
passed, with all other possessions, to the
English purchaser, who did not even
know of its existence.

About six months before this Sunday
morning, the youngest son of Mr. Jervis,
the purchaser, was hunting rats in the forsaken
lumber-room, and came upon this
valuable and curious relic. Its being
locked excited his curiosity ; the very
strong clamps stimulated it still further,
and he gave the venerable and dusty chest
a vigorous kick, which disturbed the dust
and revealed something like a name or inscription
on the black metal. The boy
seized his treasure and rushed with it
into his father's presence, who, being very

comfortably asleep, poohpoolied. his son's
find. The boy, however, cleaned the brass,
and then a name was visible, and the name
was, " Rene de Gardemesnil ! " Mr.
Jervis of course became as curious as his
son, and, having no key, the strong lock
was with much difficulty forced. Then the
romantic story became known to the surprised
Mr. Jervis. He at once addressed
a letter to Mrs. Guardsmen, not knowing
she was dead, and that her son had joined
a fellow-countryman further still from
civilization at a cattle-ranch. After waiting
some weeks, he advertised and wrote
more letters, and the result was that the
long-lost heir one evening walked into his
old home and learned his new prospects.

Mr. Jervis, who was a good fellow,
entered with the greatest enthusiasm into
the scheme of restoring his friend to his
country and his property. Such was the

VOL. III. S

resume of Monsieur Sabine's letter. He
said further that, as the marriage arrangement
between Edith and Captain Maynard
had lapsed, it was a most happy
occurrence that a legitimate heir to the
vast property had turned up in time to
prevent the estates from being sold. He
described the claimant as being very
American in his ways and manners, and
strikingly like his grand-uncle, Comtesse
Dorothy's husband. The young man
had determined to visit all his 'relatives
" in England  so he termed the
Maynard  and he. Monsieur Sabine, had
given him letters of introduction to Sir
William and Captain Maynard, and also to
herself, and she might expect a call from
Monsieur de Gardemesnil very shortly.

Edith was so taken up by this extraordinary
and most interesting letter, that at
length she had to hurry in order to be intime

for church ; but she was one of those
people who are never late in any of their
engagements. When she entered the
churchyard, with a slight colour on her
face from her rapid walking, and then
came face to face with a quarter of
people, no one could possibly have
imagined that once there had been more
than friendship on her side to the stately,
grave man, who lifted his hat with such
deep courtesy when she approached. No ;
Edith possessed the vantage-ground. It
was Dorcas who for a minute was agitated,
as she convulsively clasped Edith's hand.
There was no arriere-pensee in Edith's
sweet smile and greeting to Maynard, who
was very pale ; for, though he was still
ignorant that she had once loved him, he
felt how noble her revenge bad been for
his broken faith. There was no time then
for more than a warm pressure of thes
2

hand and a few kind words before they
all entered the church. In the chancel it
was strange that, instead of going to take
his old place by Edith's side, he must now
separate and sit opposite to her.

The division struck Dorcas acutely ; involuntarily,
with her eyes half-blinded
with tears, she looked into his face as he
followed her ; his smile of tenderness reassured
her before they knelt side by side.
But Dorcas very soon subdued her emotion.
Tears were a poor compliment to her
lover, and the past was irrevocable. Yes,
irrevocable ! And as she met her faithful
friend's kind eyes, the remembrance
of that past was vividly before her  a girl
bowed down with shame and contrition,
kneeling even as she was kneeling in that
place. The same low, rich tones of a
lady's voice came upon her ear, and told
of a tragic story of sacrifice and forgiveness,

wbicli would be unknown for ever,
but to one or two who loved that loyal
lady.

The church was crowded with eager
people to see the celebrated singer who
was to be married the following Thursday
to the gentleman who had jilted Miss
Fleming for her sake. But to these people
Dorcas was invisible, while the past,
present, and future of her life seemed
compressed into a mingled dream, as she
repeated her low responses. If she could
have altered one thing in the past ! If
she could have felt innocent of wrong to
the sweet lady to whom she owed every happiness
in her life ! Ah ! the bitterness was
there still ; it must ever be there. So
during the service the young singer's eyes
were seldom raised  perhaps there were
heavy tears in them. . . .

The benediction had been pronounced.

but still the congregation lingered about
the church and then in the picturesque
graveyard. The yeoman and his wife,
mindful of home duties, left at once,
leaving their guest and daughter to follow
at their leisure. Mr. Anstey hurried out
of his vestry to shake hands with his old
acquaintance, and Mrs. Anstey joined
him, for she was anxious to make her
peace with Dorcas ; for the wife of a future
baronet was a very different person from
the Dorcas Finch of two years before.
She was surprised to find her overtures
but coldly received. Dorcas had banished
all emotion long before Mr. Anstey had
finished his sermon ; and as she walked by
Maynard's side through the chancel, she
felt it behoved her to bear herself with
dignity for the sake of her lover who had
ventured so much for her. While they
were still talking to the Ansteys in the

Fleming Chapel, Edith joined them, and
then they all went out into the sunshine.

The churchyard was crowded. Many
there had been enemies and detractors of
the beautiful girl who now passed proudly
through their ranks, but greeting every
tried friend with a smile and a bow, and
ignoring others who were not such. Annabel
Dunn nervously pressed a little forward,
and to her Dorcas held out her hand.

It's all come true, what I said, you see.
Miss Finch. I hope you'll be very happy,"
she whispered.

Thank you," said Dorcas, passing on
with a smile through the little groups of
people, whose eyes were bent on her and
Edith and Maynard with the deepest
curiosity. The fact of the forthcoming
hurried marriage had become known, and
added much to the interest with which
Captain Maynard and the two younger

ladies were regarded. They all walked on
together in the direction of the vicarage
and Hall, and Edith and Maynard insensibly
drew a little ahead of the rest.

Passing strange it seemed to Edith to
be walking again by this man's side with
the memory of other days and other hopes
contrasted with the events of this day.
His voice seemed so natural and yet so
strange. This Hubert Maynard was a
nobler, truer gentleman than the headstrong,
impassioned man who had dealt
her such a cruel blow two years before.

Presently, when they turned into the
quiet pastures, he said, " I must speak to
you ; I must say a few words of thanks,
though what you have done for me and
Dorcas is beyond all thanks. It is only
during the last week that I have learned
how true a friend you have been to my
darling. How, when she was in despair

through my fault, you in your noble
generosity were her champion. What can
I say ? Such generosity touches me quite
too much. May God reward you and bless
you for ever ! "

And that was the proudest moment of
Edith Fleming's life.

*******

It is nearly two years since Captain Maynard's
marriage. Perhaps we may infer
from the following announcement that the
entreaties of Lady Wandsworth and Miss
Fleming have at length moved the obdurate
and hard-hearted baronet to forgive
his disobedient nephew and niece, and to
receive them at Carrington with welcome, 

Among the presentations to Her
Majesty at the Drawing-room last week
was that of Mrs. Hubert Maynard, of
Carrington Park, by the Countess of
Wandsworth. Mrs. Maynard' s dress. . ."

It is said in the county of Stoney shire
that the handsome, eccentric Comte de
G-ardemesnil, who is much more American
than French, has laid himself and his vast
fortune at the feet of Miss Fleming, of
Vanstone Hall; but it is also said that
Miss Fleming has rejected him, though
they are the best of friends.

