CHAPTEE I.

GREAT A"D LITTLE Written.

A RUSTIC congregation was pouring out of a
rustic cliurcli one Sunday afternoon  St.
Mary's, in the hamlet of Little Written,
situated about thirty miles from the metropolis.
Great Written, some three miles off,
was altogether a different affair, for the
parish there was more aristocratic than
rustic, and the having was worth nine
hundred a- year : Little Written brought its
incumbent in only two hundred, all told.
The livings were both in the gift of the Earl
of Avon, whose seat was on the other
YOL. L B

/ f

side of Great Written. The incumbent of
Great Written was an old man, almost past
duty ; the incumbent of Little Written was
an able and attractive man scarcely thirty,
the Eeverend Eyle Baumgarten. Therefore,
little wonder need be expressed if some of
the Great Written families ignored their old
rector, who had lost his teeth, and could not
by any effort be heard, and came to listen to
the eloquent Mr. Baumgarten.

A small open carriage, the horses driven
by a boy, jockey fashion, waited at the
church door. The boy was in a crimson
jacket and a velvet cap, the postillion
livery of the Avons. The sweeping seat
behind was low and convenient, without
doors ; therefore, when two ladies emerged
from the church they stepped into it unassisted.
The one looked about fifty years of
age, and walked slowly ; the other was a
young lady of exceeding fairness, with somewhat

haughty features and haughty eyes,
hie as the summer sky. The boy touched
his horses and drove on.

'He surpassed himself to-day, Grace,'
began the elder lady.

I think he did, mamma.'

But it is a long way to come  for me.
I can't venture out in all weathers. If we
had him at Great Written, now, I could
hear him every Sunday.'

Well, mamma, nothing is more easy
than to have him there  as I have said more
than once,' observed the younger, bending
down to adjust something in the carriage,
that her sudden heightening; of colour mio;ht
pass unnoticed. ' It is impossible that Mk.
Chester should last long, and you could get
Henry to give him the living.'

Grace, you talk as a child. Good
livings are not given away so easily ; neither
are men without connections inducted to

b2

them. I never heard that young Baum-garden
had any connections ; not as much asa
father or mother, even ; he does not speak
of his family. No; the most sensible plan
would be for Mr. Chester to turn off that
muff of a curate, and take on Baumgarten in
his stead.'

The young lady threw back her head.
Electors don't give up their preferments to
subside into curates, mamma.'

Unless it is made well worth their
while,' returned the elder, in a matter-of-fact
tone ; ' and old Chester might make it
worth Mr. Baumgarten's.'

*Mr. Chester ought to retire. For my
part, I cannot imagine how these old clergy
can persist in remaining in their livings.'

The clergy must grow old as well as
other people, my dear.'

I am not speaking of age so much as
of failing faculties. Some men older than

Mr. Chester are as capable of fulfilling their
duties as ever they were. But Mr. Chester
is not.'

The young lady received no answer to
this, and they went along in silence.

Mamma ! ' she exclaimed, when they
were about a mile on the road, ' we never
called to enquire after Mrs. Dane.'

I did not think of doing so.'

/ did. I shall go back again. James ! '

The boy, without slackening his speed,
half turned on his horse. ' My lady ? *

When you come to the corner, drive
down the lane and go back to the cottage.'

He touched his cap and looked forward
again, and Lady Grace sank back in the
carriage.

'You might have consulted me first,
Grace,' grumbled the Countess of Avon.
And why do you choose the longer way
round by the lane ? '

The lane is shady, mamma, and the
afternoon sunny ; to prolong our drive will
do you good.'

Lady Grace laughed as she spoke, and
it would have taken one deeper in penetration
than the Lady Avon had ever been to
divine that all had been done with a preconceived
plan : that when her daughter drove
from the church door, she had fully intended
to proceed part of the way home, and then
go back again. Lady Grace Carmel had
rather a strong will, which had been
fostered by indulgence, for she was an only
daughter.

We must notice another of the congregation,
one who had left the church by a
different door. It was a young lady of two
or three and twenty ; she had less beauty
than Lady Grace, but a far sweeter countenance.
She crossed the churchyard, and
opening one of its gates, found herself in a

narrow sheltered walk, running through a
corner of Written Wood. It was the
nearest way to her home, Written Cottage.

A few paces within it, she stood against
a tree, turned and waited ; her lips parted,
her cheek flushed, and her hand was laid
upon her beating heart. Was she expecting
anyone to join her ? Little doubt of it ; and
that it was one all too dear to her the signs
betrayed. The ear of love is strangely fine,
and she, Edith Dane, bent her ears to listen :
with the first sound of approaching footsteps
she walked hurriedly on. Would she be
caught waiting for him ? Iso, no ; rather
would she hide herself for ever than betray
aught of the deep love that lay in her heart
for the Eeverend Eyle Baumgarten.

It was Mr. Baumgarten who was following
her. He sometimes chose the near way
home, too: a tall, graceful man, with pale,
classic features, and luminous brown eyes set

deeply ; but in his face might be seen somewhat
of irresolution. He strode on, and overtook
Miss Dane.

How fast you are walking, Edith ! '

She turned her head with the prettiest
air of surprise possible, her cheeks bright
with love's rosy flush. ' Oh  is it you, Mr.
Baumgarten? I was walking fast to get
home to poor mamma.'

Nevertheless, it did happen that their
pace slackened considerably ; in fact, they
scarcely advanced at all, but sauntered alongside
by side, as if to enjoy the beauty of the
summer afternoon. ' They have been taking
me to task to-day,' suddenly began Mr.
Baumgarten.

Who ? The Avons, do you mean ? I
saw they were at church.'

Not the Avons. What have they to do
with me, Edith ? ' And Edith blushed at
his question ; or rather at herself for having

mentioned them. 'Squire Wells and his
wife, with half-a-dozen more, carpeted me in
the vestry after service this morning.'

What about ? '

'About the duties of the parish; secular,
not clerical : I take care that the latter shall
be efficiently performed. The old women
are not coddled, the younger ones' households
not sufficiently looked up, and the school, in
the point of plain sewing, is running to rack
and ruin.'

Mr. Baumgarten had been speaking in a
half-joking way, his beautiful eyes alive with
merriment. Miss Dane received the news
more seriously. ' You did not say anything
of this at dinner-time. You did not tell
mamma.'

No. Why should I tell her ? It might
only worry her, you know. The school
sewing is the worst grievance,' he lightly
ran on. 'Dame Giles's Betsy took some

cloth with her which ought to have gone
back a shirt, but which was returned a pair
of pillow-cases : the dame boxed Betsy's
ears, went to the school and nearly boxed
Miss Turner's. It seems to me they could
not have a better governess than she is.
However, such mistakes, I am told, are often
occurring, and the matrons of the parish are
up in arms.'

'But do they expect you to look after
the sewing of the school ? ' breathlessly
asked Edith.

Not exactly ; but they think I might
provide a remedy: someone who would do
so.'

How stupid they are ! I'm sure Miss
Turner does what she can with such a tribe.
Not that I think she is particularly clever ;
and were there any lady who would superintend
occasionally it might be better ;
mamma can't, but '

That is just it,' interrupted Mr. Baum-garden,
laughing. ' They tell me I ought
to help Miss Turner to a supervisor, by
taking to myself a wife.'

He looked at Edith as he spoke, and her
face happened to be turned full upon him.
The Avoids dyed it with a glowing crimson,
even to the roots of her soft brown hair. In
her confusion she knew not whether to keep
it where it was, or to turn it away : her eyelids
had dropped, glowing also ; and Edith
Dane could have boxed her own ears as
heartily as Dame Giles had boxed the unhappy
Miss Betsy's.

It cannot be thought of, you know,
Edith.'

'What cannot?'

My marrying. Marry on two hundred
a year, and expose my wife, and perhaps
others, to poverty and privation ? No, that
I will never do.'

The parsonage must be put in repair if
you marry,' stammered Edith, not in the least
knowing what she said, but compelling herself
to say something so that she might
appear unconcerned.

'And a great deal of money it would
take to do it. I told Squire Wells if he
could get my tithes increased to double their
present value, then I might venture upon a
wife. He laughed, and replied I might lookout
for a wife who had ten thousand pounds.'

Such wives are not easily found,' murmured
Edith Dane.

Not by me,' returned Mr. Baumgarten.
A college chum of mine, never dreaming to
aspire to anything better than I possess now,
married a rich young widow in the second
year of his curacy, and lives on the fat of the
land, in pomp and luxury. I would not
have done it.'

 Why ? '

Because no love went with it ; even
before his marriage he allowed himself to
say as much to me  disparaged her in fact.
No ; the school and the other difficulties,
which are out of my line, must do as they
can, yet awhile.'

Of course, mamma would be the proper
person to continue to look after these things
for you as she used to do, if she were not
incapacitated.'

'But she is, Edith. And your time is
taken up with her, so that you cannot help
me.'

Miss Dane was silent. Had her time not
been taken up, she fancied it might not be
deemed quite the thing, in her censorious
neighbourhood, to be going about in conjunction
with Mr. Baumgarten ; although
she was the late rector's daughter.

The Reverend Cyrus Dane had been
many years rector of Little Written ; at this

death Mr. Baumgarten was appointed. Mrs.
Dane was left with a very slender provision,
derived from an annuity. Her husband had
been quite unable to save money : the needs
of his parish, the education of his two
daughters, and the expenses of living had
utterly absorbed his stipend, and kept him
sadly poor. So poor that the necessary
repairs of the rectory from year to year had
never been attended to, and when he died it
was in a woeful state of dilapidation. The
eldest of his daughters, Charlotte, had married
George Brice, a nephew of Brice the
surgeon ; he was the junior partner in a
shipping house, and lived in London.

When Mr. Baumgarten arrived to take
possession of his new living, he found the
rectory perfectly uninhabitable. Mrs. Dane
had moved out of it to Written Cottage, and
it was arranged that he should take up this
residence with her, paying a certain sum for

his board. It was a comfortable arrangement
for the young clergyman, and it was a
help to Mrs. Dane. He had not the means
to put the rectory into repair, and was told
that he must go upon the late rector's widow
to do it ; that she was liable, as in fact she
was. But Mr. Baumgarten could not and
would not do that. She had not the means
to restore it any more than he had. So
things were left as they were, to drift, and
he made himself happy and contented at
Written Cottage. He had just entered now
upon the second year of his residence with
them; during which Mrs. Dane had been
seized with a slow and lingering illness,
which must in time terminate fatally.

Why did she love him ? Curious fool, he still ;
Is human love the growth of human will ?

A great deal happier for many of us if it
were the growth of human will, or under its
control. In too many instances it is born of

association, of companionship ; and thus had
it been at Written Cottage. Thrown together
in daily intercourse, an attachment
had sprung up between the young rector
and Edith Dane  a concealed attachment,
for he considered his circumstances barred
his marriage, and she hid her feelings as a
matter of course. He was an ambitious mana
proud man, though perhaps not quite conscious
of it, and to encounter the expenses of
a family household upon small means appeared
to him more to be shunned than any
adverse fate on earth. Mr. Baumgarten was
of gentle birth, but he had not any private
fortune or near relatives ; he had in fact no
connections whatever to push him forward in
the Church. For all he could see now, he
might live and die at this slender living, and
he did not like the prospect.

But we left him walking home from service
with Edith, and they soon reached

Written Cottage. Mr. Baumgarten went on
at once to the little room he used as his
study, but Edith, at the sound of wheels,
lingered in the garden. The Countess of
Avon's carriage drew up, and stopped at the
gate. Miss Dane went out to it. Grace
spoke first, her eyes running in all directions
while she did so, as if they were in search of
some object not in view.

'Edith, we could not go home without
driving round to ask after your mamma.'

Thank you. Lady Grace. Mamma is in
little pain to-day and her cough is not
troublesome. I think her breathing is generally
better in hot weather. Will you not
come in ? '

Couldn't think of it, my dear,' spoke up
the Countess. ' Our dinner will be ready ;
you know I have to take it early. Grace
forgot to order James round till we were
half-way home.'

VOL. I. C

'Has Mr. Baiimgarten got back from
church yet?' carelessly spoke Lady Grace,
adjusting the lace of her summer mantle.

He is iu his study, I fancy,' replied
Edith, and she turned round to hide the
blush called up by the question, just as Mr.
Baumgarten approached them. At his appearance
the blush in Grace Carmel's face
rivalled that in Edith's.

'You surpassed yourself to-day,' cried
Lady Avon, as she shook hands with him.
I must hear that sermon again. Would you
mind lending it to me ? '

'Not at all,' he replied, 'if you can
only make out my hieroglyphics. My
writing is plain to me, but I do not
know that it would be so to you. Lady
Avon.'

When shall I have it ? Will you bring
it up this evening, and take tea with us?
But you will find the walk long, perhaps,

after your services to-day ; and the weather
is hot,' she added.

'Very long; too far. Could you not
return with us now, Mr. Baumgarten ? ' interposed
her daughter. ' Mamma will be glad
of you to say grace at table.'

Whether it pleased the Countess or not,
she had no resource, in good manners, but
to second the invitation so unceremoniously
given. Mr. Baumgarten may have thought
he had no resource but to acquiesce  out of
good manners also, perhaps. He stood
leaning over the carriage, and spoke, half
laughing :

'Am I to bring my sermon with me? If
so, I must go in for it. I have just taken it
from my pocket.'

He came back with his sermon in its
black cover. The seat of the carriage was
exceedingly large, sweeping round in a half
circle. Lady Grace drew nearer to her

c 2

mother, sitting quite back in the middle of
the seat, and Mr. Baiimgarten took his
seat beside her. Edith Dane cast a look
after them as the carriage rolled away ; a
pained, envious look ; for her, the sunshine
of the afternoon had gone out.

Miss Dane did not like these visits of his
to Avon House, and he seemed to be often
going there on one plea or another. There,
he was surrounded by all the glory and
pomp of stately life, and that is apt to tell
upon a man's heart ; Grace Carmel, too, was
more beautiful than she, and singularly
attractive. Not that Edith did, or could,
suppose there was any real danger : the
difference in their social positions barred
that.

Some cloud, unexplained, and nearly
forgotten now, had overshadowed Lady
Avon's later life. It had occurred, whatever
it was, during the lifetime of her lord.

She had chosen ever since to hive at Avon
House in retirement.

An inward complaint, real or fancied,
had set in, and the Countess thought herself
unable to move to London. Lady
Grace had been presented by her aunt, and
passed one season in town : then she had
returned to her mother, to share perforce in
her retirement, at which she inwardly
rebelled. Over and over again did Grace
wish her brother would marry and come
home ; for the place was his, and it would
compel her mother to quit it. But Lord
Avon preferred his town house to his
country one, and told his mother she was
heartily welcome to stay in it. He liked a
gay life better than a dull one : as all the
world had known when he was young
Viscount Standish.

It is just possible that the ennui of
Grace's monotonous life at Avon had led to

her falling in love with Mr. Baumgarten.
That she had done so, that she loved him,
with a strong and irrepressible passion, was
certain ; and she did not try to overcome it,
but rather fostered it, seeking his society,
dwelling upon his image. Had it occurred
to her to fear that she might find a
dangerous rival in Edith Dane ? No ; for
she cherished the notion that Mr. Baum-garden
was attached to herself, and Edith
was supposed to be engaged to a distant
cousin ; a young man who had been reading
with her father during the last year of his
life. The young fellow had wanted Edith ;
he asked her parents for her, he implored
her to wait until he should be ordained.
Edith had only laughed at him; but the
report that they were engaged had in someway
got about, and Lady Grace never
thought to doubt it. No ; strange though
it may seem to those who understand the

exacting and jealous nature of love, Lady
Grace never had cast a fear to Edith's being
her rival.

This evening was but another of those
Mr. Baumgarten sometimes spent at Avon
House, feeding the flame of her ill-starred
passion. His manner to women was
naturally tender, and to Grace, with her
fascinations brought unconsciously to bear
upon him, dangerously warm. That he
never for one moment had outstepped the
bounds of friendly intercourse, Grace attributed
entirely to the self-restraint imposed
by his position ; but she did not doubt he
loved her in secret.

While at dinner he told them, jokingly,
as he had told Edith, that the parish wanted
him to marry. Lady Avon remarked, in
answer, that he could not do better ; parsons
and doctors should always be married men.

Yes, that's very right, very true,' he

returned, in the same jesting tone. ' But
suppose they have nothing to marry upon ? '

But you have something, Mr. Baum-garden.'


Yes, I have two hundred a-year ; and
no residence.'

The rectory is rather bad, I believe.'

Bad ! Well, Lady Avon, you should
see it.'

Mr. Dane ought not to have allowed it
to get into that state,' she remarked ; and
the subject dropped.

After dinner Mr. Baumgarten stood on
the lawn with Grace, watching the glories of
the setting sun. Lady Avon, indoors, was
beginning to doze ; they knew better than
to disturb her ; this after-dinner sleep,
which sometimes did not last more than ten
minutes, was of great moment to her, the
doctor said. And indeed it was so : when
she did not get it she invariably had a

restless night, the overtired brain not suffering
her to sleep. She took it in the diningroom
; only moving to the drawing-room
when she awoke. Great ceremony was not
observed at Avon House. Six or eight
servants comprised the indoor household,
for the Countess's jointure was extremely
limited. The Avon peerage was not a rich
one.

Mr. Baumgarten had held out his arm
to Lady Grace in courtesy as they began to
pace the paths, and she took it. They came
to a halt near the entrance gate, both gazing
at the beautiful sky, their hands partially
shading their eyes from the blaze of sunset,
when a little man dressed in black with a
white necktie was seen approaching.

Why, here comes Moore ! ' exclaimed
Grace.

He was the clerk at Great Written
Church. Limping up to the gate, for he

was lame with rheumatism, he stood there
and looked at Mr. Baumgarten, as if his
business lay with him. But Grace, withdrawing
her arm from her companion, was
first at the gate.

I beg pardon, my lady, I thought it
right to come up and inform the Countess
of the sad news  and I'm glad I did, seeing
you here, sir. Mr. Chester is gone, my
lady.'

Gone ! ' exclaimed Grace. ' Gone
where ? '

He is dead, my lady  he is dead, sir.
Departed to that bourn whence no traveller
returns,' continued the clerk, wishing to be
religiously impressive, and believing he was
quoting from Scripture.

Surely it cannot be ! ' said ]mr. Baum-garden.


Ay, but it is, sir, more's the pity. And
frightfully sudden. After getting home from

afternoon service he said he felt uncommonly
tired, he couldn't think why, and that he'd
not have his tea till later in the evening.
He went up to his room and sat down in the
easy chair there and dropped asleep. A
sweet, tranquil sleep it was, to all appearance,
and Mrs. Chester shut the door and
left him. But after an hour or two, when
she sent up to say he had better wake up for
his tea, they found him dead. The poor old
lady is quite beside herself with the suddenness,
and the maids be running about, all
sixes and sevens.'

I will go down with you at once, Moore,'
said Mr. Baumgarten.

But you will come back and tellus
 and tell us how Mrs. Chester is ? ' said
Lady Grace, as he was passing through the
gate.

'Yes, certainly, if you wish it,' he answered,
walking away with so fleet a step

that the clerk with difficulty kept up with
hin.

I fancy it must have been on his mind,
sir,' said he ; 'not direct perhaps, but some
inkling like of what was about to happen.
This afternoon, when I'd took off his surplice
in the vestry  it was him that had read
prayers, as usual, Mr. Boyd preaching  I
went and put things to rights a bit in the
church, and when I got back to the vestry
to lock up, I was surprised to see the rector
there still, sitting opposite the outer door,
which stood open to the churchyard. Mr.
Boyd was gone, but he was not. "Don't
you feel well, sir ? " said I. " Oh yes, I'm
well," he answered, "but I'm tired. We
must all get to feel tired when the end of
our life is at hand, Moore, and mine has
been a long one." " Yes, it has, sir, and a
happy one too," I said, " thank God." With
that he rose up from his chair and lifted his

hands towards heaven, looking up at the
blue sky. "Thanks be to my merciful
God," he repeated solemnly, in a hushed
sort of tone. " For that, and all the other
blessings of my past life on earth, thanks be
unto Him ! " With that, he took his hat and
stick and walked out to the churchyard,'
concluded the clerk, ' leaving me a bit dazed
as 'twere, for I had never heard him talk
like that before ; he was not the sort o' man
to do it.'

Within an hour Mr. Baumgarten was
back at Avon House. Lady Grace was still
lingering in the garden in the summer twilight.
He told her in a hushed voice all he
had to tell ; of the general state of things
at the rectory, of poor Mrs. Chester's sad
distress.

'Mamma is expecting you,' said Grace.
I broke the news to her, but she wants to
hear more particulars.'

They went into the drawing-room by
the open doors of the window. Mr. Baum-garden
gave the best account he could to
Lady Avon, and then drank a cup of tea,
standing ; he would not wait to sit down for
it. Still asking questions, Grace passed out
again with him to the open air, and strolled
by his side along the smooth broad path
which led to the entrance gate. When they
reached it, he held out his hand to bid her
good-evening. The opal sky was clear and
beautiful ; a large star shone in it.

Great Written is in my brother's gift,'
she whispered, as her hand rested in his. ' I
wish he would give it to you.'

A flush rose to the young clergyman's
face. To exchange Little Written for Great
Written had now and then made one of the
flighty dreams of his ambition  but never
really cherished.

Do not mock me with pleasant visions.

Lady Grace. I can have no possible interest
with Lord Avon.'

You could marry then,' she softly said,
in reference to the conversation at dinner,
and set the parish grumblers at defiance.'

'Marry? Yes, I should  I hope  do
so,' was his reply. His voice was as soft asher
own, his speech hesitating ; he was
thinking of Edith Dane.

But how was Lady Grace to divine that ?
She, alas ! gave altogether a different interpretation
to the words ; and her heart beat
with a tender throbbing, and her lips parted
with love and hope, and she gazed after him
until he disappeared in the shadows of the
sweet summer night.

CHAPTER 11.

A CURIOUS MISTAKE.

The Countess of Avon, persuaded into it by
her daughter  badgered into it, her ladyship
said  exacted a promise from her son that
he would bestow the living of Great Written
upon the Eeverend Eyle Baumgarten.

The Earl did not give an immediate
consent ; in fact, he demurred to give it at
all, and sundry letters passed to and fro
between Avon House and Paris  for this
lordship happened just then to have taken
a run over to the French capital. Great
Written was too good a thing to be thrown
away upon young Baumgarten, who was
nobody, he told his mother, and he should

like to give it to Elliotsen ; but Lady Avon,
for peace' sake at home, urged her petition
strongly, and the Earl at length granted it
and gave the promise.

The morning the letter arrived containing
the promise, and also the information that
his lordship was back at his house in London,
Lady Avon was feeling unusually ill, and did
not get up. Her head was aching violently,
and she bade her maid put the letter aside ;
she would open it later. This she did in the
afternoon, when she was sitting up in her
dressing-room, and she then told Grace of
the arrival of the unexpected promise.

Oh, let me see it ! ' exclaimed Grace, in
her incautious excitement, holding out her
hand for the letter.

She read it hungrily, with flushing cheeks
and trembling fingers. Lady Avon could
but note this. It somewhat puzzled her.

'Grace,' she said, 'I cannot think why

VOL. I. D

you should be so eager about this. What
does it signify to you who gets the having
whether Mr. Baumgarten or another ? '

Grace read to the end and folded up the
letter before answering. She was a model
of calmness now.

'It would be very annoying to us,
mamma, if some dolt of a man got it 
and Henry, as you know, has no discrimination.
Mr. Baumgarten is safe. He
is suitable in all respects; thoroughly
capable, and a gentleman. Besides, you like
him.'

Well, I do,' assented Lady Avon.

In the evening, when Grace was sauntering
listlessly in the rocky walk, wondering
whether anyone would call that night or not,
she saw lira. Him. He was coming along
the path from the rectory. The old rector
had been buried some days now.

I have been sitting with Mrs. Chester,

and thought I would just ask, in passing,
how Lady Avon is,' he remarked, swinging
through the gate, as if he would offer an
apology for calling. ' The last time I was
here she seemed so very poorly

She is not any better, I am sorry to
say ; to-day she has not come downstairs
at all,' replied Grace, meeting his offered
hand. 'What will you give me for
some news I can tell you?' she resumed,
standing before him in the full glow of her
beauty, her hand not yet withdrawn from
his.

He bent his sweet smile down upon her,
his deep, dark eyes speaking the admiration
that he might not utter. Eyle Baumgarten
was no more insensible to the charms of a
fascinating and beautiful girl than are other
men  despite his love for Edith Dane. She
was awaiting an answer.

What may I give ? ' he said. ' Nothing

d2

that I could give would be of value to
you.'

How do you know that, Mr. Baucis


With a burning blush, for she had spoken
unguardedly, Grace laughed merrily, stepped
a few steps backward, and drew a letter
from her pocket.

It is one that came to mamma this morning,
and it has a secret in it. What will you
give me to read you just one little sentence ? '

Mr. Baumgarten, but that Edith and his
calling were in the way, would have said a
shower of kisses : it is possible that he might
in spite of both, had he dared. Whether
his looks betrayed him cannot be known ;
Lady Grace, blushing still, took refuge in
the letter.

Folding it so that only the signature was
visible, she held it out to him. He read the
name, ' Henry.'

'Is it  from  Lord Avon?' he said,
with hesitation.

'It is from Lord Avon. He does not
sign himself in any other way to us. " Your
ever affectionate son, Henry," it always runs
to mamma : and it is no unmeaning phrase ;
he is very fond of her. But now for the
secret. Listen.'

Mr. Baumgarten, suspecting nothing,
listened with a smile.

" I have been dunned with applications
since I got home," ' read Grace, aloud, from
Lord Avon's letter, ' " some of them from
personal friends; but as you and Grace
make so great a point of it, mother, I
promise you that Mr. Baumgarten shall
have Great Written." ' In reading, she
had left out the words ' and Grace.' She
closed the letter, and then stole a glance at
his face.

It had turned pale to seriousness.

I do not quite understand,' he said.

No ? It means that you are appointed
to Great Written.'

How can I ever sufficiently thank Lord
Avon ? ' he breathed forth.

Now, is not the knowing that worth
something? ' laughed she.
 ' Oh, Lady Grace ! It is worth far more
than anything I have to give in return. But
it is not a jest, is it ? Can it be really
true ? '

'A jest! Is that likely .? You will be
publicly appointed in a day or two, and
will, of course, hear from my brother. I
am not acquainted, myself, with the formal
routine of these things. Mamma is rejoicing
; she would rather have you here than
anyone.'

Lady Avon is too kind,' he murmured,
abstractedly.

And what do you think mamma said ?

Shall I tell soli? "Mr. Baiimgarten can
marry now." Those were her words.'

Grace spoke with sweet sauciness,
secure in the fact that he could not divine
her feelings for him  although she believed in
his love for her. His answer surprised her.

'Yes, I can marry now,' he assented,
still half lost in his own thoughts. ' I shall
do so  soon. I have only waited until
some preferment should justify it.'

You are a bold man, Mr. Baumgarten,
to make so sure of the lady's consent. Have
you asked it ? '

No ; where was the use, until I could
speak to some purpose ? But she has detected
my wishes, I am sure of that : and
there is no coquetry in Edith.'

Edith ! ' almost shrieked Lady Grace.
I beg your pardon ; I shall not fall.'

What have you done ? You have hurt
yourself!'

They had been walking close to the
miniature rocks, and she had seemed to
stumble over a projecting corner.

'I gave my ankle a twist. The pain
was sharp,' she moaned.

Pray lean on me. Lady Grace ; pray
let me support you : you are as white as
death.'

He wound his arms gently round her,
and laid her pallid face upon his shoulder ;
he thought she was going to faint. For one
single moment she yielded to the fascination
of the beloved resting-place. Oh ! that it
could be hers for ever ! She shivered,
raised her head, and drew away from
him.

Thank you,' she said faintly ; ' the
anguish has passed. I must go indoors
now.'

Mr. Baumgarten held out his arm, but
she did not take it, walking alone with rapid

steps towards the house. At the entrance
of the glass doors she turned to him :

I will wish you good-evening now.'

He held out his hand, but she did not
appear to see it. She ran in, and he turned
away to depart, thinking she must be in
great pain.

Lady Grace shut herself in the drawing-room.
For a few moments she rushed about
as one possessed, in her torrent of anger.
As Congreve tells us, ' Hell has no fury
as a woman scorned.'

Then she sat down to her writing-desk,
and dashed off a blotted and hasty note to
Lord Avon  which would just save the post :

Give the living to anyone you please,
Harry, but not to Eyle Baumgarten ; bestow
it where you will, but not on him. There
are reasons why he would be utterly unfit
for it. Explanations when we meet.'

During this, Mr. Baumgarten was hastening
home, the great news surging in his
brain. Edith was at the gate, not looking
for him, of course ; merely enjoying the air
of the summer's night. That's what she
said she was doing when he came up. He
caught her by the waist, and drew her
between the trees and the privet-hedge,
and began to kiss her. She cried out, and
gazed at him in wonder.

'Edith, do you think I am mad? I
believe I am  mad with joy ; for the time
has come that I may ask you to be my wife.'

Your wife ? ' she stammered, for in
truth that prospect had seemed farther off
than heaven.

He drew her to him again in the plenitude
of his emotion. Her heart beat wildly
against his, and he laid her face upon his
breast, more fondly than he had laid
another's, not long before.

You know how I have loved you : you
must have seen it, though I would not
speak ; but I could not marry while my
income was so small. It would not have
been right, Edith.'

If you think so  no.'
But, oh, my dearest, I may speak now.
Will you be my wife ? '

But  what has happened ? ' she asked.

Ah, what ! Promotion has come to me,
my dear one. I am presented to the living
of Great Written.'

Of Great Written ! Eyle ! '

It is quite sure. Lord Avon's mother
asked him to give it to me, it seems, and he
generously complied. Edith, will you reject
me, now I have Great Written ? '

She hid her face ; she felt him lovingly
stroking her hair. 'I would not have rejected
you when you had only Little
Written, Eyle.'

Yours is not the first fair face which
has been there this night, Edith,' he said in a
laughing whisper. ' I had Lady Grace's
there but an hour ago.'

A shiver seemed to dart through her
heart. Her jealousy of Lady Grace had
been almost as powerful as her love for Mr.
Baumgarten.

'Grace said, in a joking kind of way,
that her mother had remarked I could
marry now I had Great Written. So I told
Grace that I should do so  one word leads
to another, you know, Edith  and that I
had only waited for preferment to marry
you, my best love. As I was speaking, she
managed somehow to twist her ankle. The
pain must have been intense, for she turned
as white as death, and I had to hold her tome.
But I did not pay myself for my
trouble, as I am doing now  with kisses.'

She lifted her face up and looked in

his. ' You would only have liked to do so,
Eyle.'

I have liked to do so ! ' he repeated,
smothering back a glimmer of consciousness.
Edith, my whole love is yours.'

A little more love-making, a little more
lingering in the soft shade of the evening
twilight, and then they went in together and
told the great news to Mrs. Dane.

Some days passed on. Lady Avon
rather wondered that she did not hear more
from her son, but supposed he had written
direct to Mr. Baumgarten. Grace said
nothing. The two lovers, over at Written
Cottage, were busily planning out the future.

One morning there was a startling announcement
in the Times. As Lady Avon's
eyes fell upon it she truly thought they
must be playing her false, that her sight
was failing her.

The living of Great Written was bestowed
upon the Honourable and Eeverend
Wilfred Elliotsen, a personal friend of the
Earl of Avon.

Her ladyship called out for her daughter
in commotion ; she sent her maid, Charity,
to hasten her. Grace feared her mother
was worse, and flew to the room with rapid
steps.

What can be the meaning of this,
Grace ? ' gasped the Countess. ' Henry has
not given the having to Mr. Baumgarten,
after all ; he has given it to young
Elliotsen ! '

Oh, indeed,' said Grace, carelessly.
Harry can do as he likes, I suppose.'

No, he can't, in such a case as this. At
least he ought not. Once his promise was
given to me it should have been kept. I
cannot understand his going from it. It is
not like him.'

Well, mamma, I don't see that it
matters to us, whichever way it maybe.'


But it does matter. I don't want a
simpering young fellow like Wilfred Elliotsen
down here, and whose wife goes in for rank
Puseyism besides. She has only been waiting
for his appointment to a church, report
says, to make him play all kinds of antics in
it ; she leads him by the nose.'

Grace laughed.

It is no laughing matter,' reproved her
mother, 'for me or Mr. Baumgarten. I
shall be ashamed to look him in the face.
And he had begun to lay out plans for his
marriage with Miss Dane and their life at
Great Written ! '

How do you know that ? ' asked Grace,
quickly.

Mrs. Brice told me so when she was
here yesterday,' replied Lady Avon. ' She

knew from the Danes that Eyle Baumgarten
was to have Great Written and to marry
Edith. Why Henry should be so changeable
I cannot nuacine.'

Lady Avon was evidently very much
annoyed, and justly so ; annoyed at the fact,
and annoyed because she was unable to
understand her son, who was neither capricious
nor inconsiderate. She wrote a
letter of complaint to him that day, and
awaited his answer.

The ill news broke abruptly upon Mr.
Baumgarten. The little hard-worked, inoffensive
doctor, Mr. Brice, who had a kind
heart and never failed to have a kind word
for his patients, chanced to see in the Times
the same paragraph that Lady Avon saw,
and on the same morning.

Bless my heart,' he exclaimed, ' what
an unlucky thing ! How could Baumgarten
have made such a mistake ? He said Lady

Grace told him. Perhaps it was she who
mistook the matter ! '

Away he hastened to Written Cottage,
the newspaper in his pocket, and into the
clergyman's presence, who sat in his little
study writing a sermon. And when he got
there, he felt at fault how to open the ball.
It seemed so cruel a thing to do. Mr.
Baumgarten, who looked gay and unconscious,
led up to it.

'Have you heard any particular news
this morning ? ' began the surgeon, after a
few words had passed.

No,' lightly replied Mr. Baumgarten ;
I've not seen anyone to tell me any ; I have
been busy since breakfast with my sermon
for next Sunday. Nearly the last I shall
preach at Little Written, I expect.'

Mr. Brice coughed. ' Have you heard
from Lord Avon ? ' he asked.

Not yet ; I rather wonder at it. Every

VOL. I. E

morning I look for a letter from him, but it
does not come. He may be in France
again for all I know myself ; I don't like to
call at Avon House until my appointment is
confirmed. It would look pushing ; as if I
were impatient.'

Well, I  I saw a curious paragraph in
the newspaper just now about Great Written
being given away ; but it was another name
that was mentioned, not yours,* said Mr.
Brice. ' I thought I'd come here at once to
see if you knew anything about it.'

Not anything ; newspapers are always
making mistakes,' smiled Mr. Baumgarten.

Mr. Brice took the paper from his
pocket. Finding the place, he laid it before
the clergyman, who read it. Head it twice
over, and began to feel somewhat less easy.
He read it a third time, aloud.

" We are authorised to state that the
valuable having of Great Written, Home-shire,

has been bestowed by its patron, the
Earl of Avon, upon the Honourable and
Eeverend Wilfred Elliotsen." '

There ensued a pause. The two gentlemen
were looking at one another, each
questioning.

It must be a mistake,' said Mr. Baum-garden.
'Lord Avon would not give the
living to me, and then give it to someone else.'

The question is  did he' give it to
you ? ' returned Mr. Brice. ' Perhaps the
mistake lies in your having thought so.'

I saw it in his own handwriting, in his
letter to his mother. Lady Grace showed
it to me ; at least, a portion of it. He
wrote in answer to an appeal Lady Avon
had made to him to give me the living.
His promise was a positive one. It is this
newspaper that makes the mistake, Brice ;
it cannot be otherwise.'

Anyway, we will hope so,' briskly

UBRARV

added the surgeon. But he spoke more
confidently than he felt, and perhaps Mr.
Baumgarten had done the same.

Lord Avon's reply to his mother's letter
of complaint and inquiry came to her by
return of post, and ran as follows :

'My dear Mother,  I cancelled my
promise of giving the living to Baumgarten
at Grace's request. She wrote to me posthaste
some days ago, telling me there were
reasons why Baumgarten would be utterly
unfit to hold Great Written, and begging
me to bestow it upon anyone rather than
ujDon him. That is all I know ; you must
ask an explanation of Grace. Of course I
assumed she was writing for you. It is
settled now, and too late to change back
again. Elliotsen will do very well in the
living, I daresay. As to his wife wanting to
turn and twist him to attempt foolish things

in the church, as you seem to fear, I think
it hardly likely. If she does, he must put
her down.  Ever your loving Son,

Henry.'

Yes, I did write to Henry, mamma ; I
did ask him not to give the living to Mr.
Baumgarten,' avowed Grace with passionate
emphasis when questioned, her cheeks
aflame, for the subject excited and tried her.
My reason was that I consider him an unfit
man to hold it.'

Why, it was at your request that I
asked Henry to give it to Mr. Baumgarten ;
you gave me no peace until I consented,'
retorted Lady Avon.

But, after reflection, I came to the conclusion
that I ought not to have pressed it,
that he ought not to have it, and would not
do in it ; and the shortest way to mend the
matter was by writing to Harry. That's all.'

Lady Avon glanced keenly at her
daughter. She was mentally asking herself
what it all meant  the burning face, the tone
sharp as a knife and telling of pain, the capricious
conduct in regard to the preferment.
But she could not tell : she might have her
suspicions, and very ridiculous suspicions
too, not at all to be entertained ; but she
could not tell.

'I am sorry that a daughter of mine
should have condescended to behave so ; you
best know what motive prompted it, Grace.
To bestow a living and then snatch it away
again in caprice is sheer child's play. It
will be a cruel blow to Eyle Baumgarten.'

A cruel blow it was. Lady Avon turned
to her desk after speaking these words to
her daughter, and began a note to the
young clergyman, feeling very much humbled
in mind as she wrote it. Li the most
plausible way she could, a lame way at best,

she apologised for the mistake which had
been made, adding she hardly knew whether
it might be attributed to her son, to herself,
or to both, and pleaded for Mr. Baum-garden's
forgiveness. This note she despatched
by her footman to Written Cottage.

Mr. Baumgarten chanced to be standing
in the little hall as the man approached.
He received the note from him.

Is there any answer to take back, sir ?
My lady did not say.'

I will see,' replied Mr. Baumgarten.
Sit down, Robert.'

Shutting himself into his study, he
opened the note. For a few happy moments
 if moments of suspense ever can be
happy  he indulged in a vision that all
might still be right ; that the note was to
tell him so. It was short, filling only one
side of the paper, and he stood while he
read it.

Before he lead quite come to the end,
before he had well gathered in its purport,
a shock, singular in its effects, struck Mr.
Baumgarten. Whether his breath stopped,
or the circulation of his heart stopped, or
the coursing of his pulses stopped, he could
not have told ; but he sank down in a chair
powerless, the letter falling on the table
from his nerveless hand. A strange, beating
movement stirred him inwardly, his
throat was gasping, his eyelids were fluttering,
a sick faintness had seized upon him.

But that he struggled against it with
desperate resolution, he believed he should
have fainted. Once before he had felt
something like this, when he was an undergraduate
at Oxford, and had been rowing
against time to win a match. They
said then, those around him, that he had
over-exercised this strength. But lie had
not been exercising his strength now, and he

was far worse this time than he had been
then.

He sat perfectly still, his arms supported
by the elbows of the chair, and recovered
by degrees. After a bit, he took up Lady
Avon's note to read it more fully, and then
he knew and realised that all to which he
had been so ardently looking forward was
at an end.

The servant was seated in the little hall,
quietly waiting, when Mr. Baumgarten
came out of his study.

Her ladyship's note does not require an
answer, Eobert,' he said with apparent
coolness. ' How is she to-day ? '

Middling, sir. She seemed much upset
this morning, Charity told us, by a letter
she got from his lordship in London,' added
Eobert. ' Good-day, sir.'

Mr. Baumgarten nodded in answer. He
stood at the door looking out, apparently

watching the man away. The sun was
shining in Eyle Baumgarten's face, but the
sun which had been latterly shining on his
heart, illuminating it with colours of the
brightest and sweetest phantasy  that sun
seemed to have set for ever.

CHAPTER III.

THE Earl OF AVON.

The Honourable and Reverend Wilfred
EUiotsen took possession of the living of
Great Written, having been appointed to it
by Lord Avon. And the Reverend Rule
Baumgarten remained, as before, at Little
Written.

Changes took place. They take place
everywhere. The most notable one was the
marriage of Mr. Baumgarten.

That he had been grievously disappointed
and annoyed at the appointment of
another to the having, which he had been
led to suppose would be his, was a bitter

fact. He set it down to the caprice of great
men, and strove to live down the sting.
The chief difficulty lay in his contemplated
marriage : and he deliberated with himself
whether he ought for the present to
abandon it or to carry it out. He decided
upon the latter course. It is probable that
he deemed he could not in honour withdraw
now ; and it is more than probable that,
once having allowed himself to cherish his
hopes and his love, he was not stoic enough
to put them from him again. Finally, he resolved
to leave the decision to Edith Dane.

What do you say, Edith ? ' he asked
her. ' Shall we throw prudence to the
winds, and come together for better, for
worse ? '

Nay, Rule, it is for you to decide that's
she answered, a hundred blushes on her
pretty cheeks.

I think not,' he answered. ' For I

should decide it all one way ; and it might
not, for you, be the best way. Should you
be afraid to risk housekeeping on my
stipend, Edith ? Two hundred a-year, you
know, my love, all told.'

No, I should not,' she whispered.

So be it, then,' he answered. ' And,
with your mother's permission, we will have
the wedding at once.'

Mrs. Dane gave the permission readily.
As long as she lived, and was with them,
her small income would augment theirs.
And within a month of Mr. Baumgarten's
disappointment he and Edith became man
and wife.

You do quite right,' warm-hearted little
Mr. Brice had assured them. ' The cuttings
and contriving necessary to make a small
income go as far as a large one render a
young couple all the happier. / ought to
know : mine was small enough for many

a year of my married life ; it's not much
else now.'

The autumn was advancing when Lord
Avon came down to pay a visit to his
mother. His lordship brought with him
full intentions to have it out with her, and
with Grace, about that matter in the
summer. He began with his mother. She
knew no more of it than he did, she protested
resentfully, for she was still sore upon
the point. All she could say was that he
had written to promise her the living for
Mr. Baumgarten, and then gave it to Wilfred
Elliotsen.

Grace was more impervious still. She
simply refused to discuss the subject at all,
telling her brother to hold his tongue.

I don't see why you should blame me
mother,' remonstrated the young man. 'It
was certainly no fault of mine.'

'It was your fault, Henry,' retorted

Lady Avon.

'I told you of Grace's peremptory

letter.'

'Who but you would heed the wild
letter of a girl ? You should have waited
for me to confirm it. As I did not do so,
you ought to have written to me before
acting. I did not myself care for Mr.
Baumgarten to have Great Written it was
Grace who worried me into asking it of
you; but as you promised it to him, it

should have been his. You cannot picture

to yourself, Henry, half the annoyance it

has cost me.' '

Lord Avon could picture it very well.

All this arose from Grace's absurd caprice.

She had been indulged all her life, and did

just as she pleased.

And for you to put so silly a young

fellow as Elliotsen into it ! ' went on Lady

Avon, enlarging on her grievances. ' I told
you his wife would make him play all kinds
of pranks in the church.'

What does he do ? ' asked Lord Avon.

Very ridiculous things indeed. He has
put a lot of brass candlesticks on the companionable,
and he turns himself about
and bows down at different parts of the service,
and she sweeps her head forward in a
fashion that sets the whole church staring.
We are not used to these innovations,
Henry.'

Lady Avon was correct in saying so.
The innovations were innovations in those
days ; now they are looked upon almost as
matters of history, as if they had come in
with William the Conqueror.

'And the parish is not pleased with
them ? ' returned Lord Avon.

Pleased with them ! ' echoed his mother.
He began by wanting to make every soul

in the parish, labourers and all, attend daily
service in the church from eight o'clock to
nine, allowing them ten minutes for breakfast
and fifty for prayers ; and she has
dressed the Sunday School in scarlet cloaks,
with a large white linen cross sewn down the
back. One thing is not liked at all : the inexperienced
rustics cannot be made to understand
which way he wants them to turn
at the Creeds ; so he has planted some
men behind the free benches every Sunday
with long white wands, and the moment
the Belief begins, down come the wands,
rapping the heads of the doubtful ones.
You have no idea of the commotion it
causes.'

Lord Avon burst into a laugh. ' I'd
have run down for a Sunday before this had
I known the fun that was going on,' said he.

 An absolute fact ; occurring in a rural church at the
time such movements began, many years ago.

VOL. I. F

The girls must take care the bulls don't run
at their scarlet cloaks.'

'Ah, Henry, you young men regard
these things only as matters for irreverent
joking. Mr. Bauragarten would not have
served us so.'

I suppose not. Do you get up to
attend the early week-day service, mother ? '

'Not I. I can say my prayers more
quietly at home. Elliotsen does not force
the rich to the early service; only the
poor  when he can do so. He tells us
he leaves it between ourselves and our consciences.'


You'd be geese if you went,' said my
lord. ' I'll talk to him.'

'It will not do any good, Henry. If
you'd talk to her perhaps it might ; it is she
who has done it all.' And Lord Avon
laughed again. He was a man of middle
height, spare and angular, with a kindly,

honest face, but not a handsome or a clever
one.

Presently he walked out. In one of the
pleasant green lanes with which the place
abounded he suddenly encountered Brice,
the surgeon, who was coming along at a
steaming pace.

Walking for a wager ? ' cried he.

That's it ; your lordship has just hit it,'
replied the surgeon, grasping warmly the
ready hand held out to him. ' I and Time
often have a match together, and sometimes
he wins and sometimes I do.'

They had always been good friends,
these two, from the time when the boy,
Henry Carmel  for it was before his father
came into the title  would fall into no end
of outdoor random scrapes, and the little
doctor, as far as he could, shielded him and
brought him out of them. The Earl then
reigning was a valetudinarian, Henry's

F 2

uncle, and the boy spent three parts of his
time with him at Avon House.

When did you come down ? ' asked Mr.
Brice.

Only this morning. My mother seems
pretty well, I think?'

'Y  es,' assented the surgeon, with
slight hesitation. ' She could be much
better, though, if she'd let the world wag its
own way, and not trouble herself trying to
set it to rights.'

Meaning the new parson and his new
ways ? ' laughed Lord Avon, who talked
more freely with the surgeon than he would
have done with anyone else. ' She has been
treating me to a history of the nonsense.'

Well, and it is nonsense ; just that,'
said Mr. Brice. ' I ventured to say a few
words of remonstrance to Mr. EUiotsen one
day. " Oh," answered he, good-naturedly,
but these new ways are all the rage in the

fashionable world now " ; " May be so, sir'*
said I ; " but what suits a fashionable congregation
does not suit a rustic parish'*
Not all at once," he readily answered, " but
they'll get used to it, Brice, they'll get used
to it." Perhaps they may.'

I'm sure my mother never will,' spoke
Lord Avon. 'To begin with, she dislikes
Elliotsen. At least, she disliked his coming
to Great Written.'

She wanted Mr. Baumgarten to have

it;

Lord Avon looked surprised. ' Did you
know of that, Brice ? '

Most of us knew of it down here. For
several days, more than a week, I think, it
was understood that you had actually given
him the living.'

What  understood publicly ? '

Publicly and privately too. Baum-garden
began to make preparations for

moving into the rectory ; lie arranged with
old Mrs. Chester to take over some of her
furniture. It was the certainty he had
shown which made it so mortifying for him
when the upshot came.'

To judge by Lord Avon's face just now
some of the mortification had travelled to
himself. He was looking through the
branches of the trees overshadowing the
lane, their foliage beautiful with the
changing tints of autumn, his far-off gaze
bent on the blue sky beyond the hills, as if
seeking a solution there of something he
could not understand.

I was sorry myself,' said Mr. Brice.
'Lady Avon talked to me, and Mrs. Dane
talked to me, lamenting your caprice  if I
may presume to say it, my lord,' he added
with a twinkle. ' It tried Mrs. Dane much.'

It was not caprice, Brice. I did give
Mr. Baumgarten the living ; that is, I gave

my mother a promise it should be his, which
is the same thing ; and I afterwards retracted
the promise and gave it to EUiotsen. Of
course it looked like caprice, and very
shameful caprice ; but  but,' Lord Avon
hesitated, ' you will believe me, I dare say,
when I tell you I was not to blame

'In my own mind I could not at the
time think you were. It was not like you.
How was it ? '

'It is a thing which I cannot explain,
Brice, even to you. A mistake was made in
well, let us say in more quarters than one.
It has been put down to my score hitherto,
I find, and it can continue to be so. I am
very, very sorry if it tried Mrs. Dane.'

Mr. Brice recounted the past circumstances
in a few words. Lord Avon listened.

So Baumgarten and Edith married on
the strength of possessing Great Written ! '
he remarked. ' I wish  I wish '

No ; they got engaged on the strength
of possessing it  and were married all the
same when they knew they should not have
it,' interrupted the surgeon. ' Their prospects
are not grand ; the living is small, as
I dare say you know, and there's no
habitable house.'

Lord Avon nodded. Little Written was
not in his gift, and he did not personally
know Mr. Baumgarten.

Naturally Mrs. Dane feels anxious about
their future. When she dies her income
dies with her. And two or three months
will about bring the end. I have just left
her sitting under the pear-tree in the garden ;
she is out of doors most fine days. And,
upon my word, I must be going on,' concluded
the doctor.

They shook hands and parted. Lord
Avon strolled onwards with a clouded face.
When staying at Avon House, a boy, he used

to go over to Mr. Dane to do Latin with him
in the daytime; Mrs. Dane was very fond
of the boy, and he was fond of her. He
would rather, now that he was a man, have
brought vexation upon everyone in the two
parishes, than upon Mrs. Dane.

If ever Grace gets me into a bother of
this kind again she shall pay for it ! ' thought
his lordship.

By-and-by he came in view of Written
Cottage. Mrs. Dane was still seated under
the pear-tree. Seeing Lord Avon, she waved
her hand to him, and he opened the gate and
entered.

What a stranger you are ! ' where her
first words.

He kept her hand in his as he sat down
on the bench beside her. She had a light
fleecy kerchief thrown over her white net
cap and a warm shawl wrapped about her
shoulders. Her face, always a delicate one.

looked ominously so now ; it was so changed
as to give Lord Avon an unpleasant thrill.

Dear Mrs. Dane ! I am sure you have
been very ill.'

'I have been, and am,' she answered.
You see the difference in me, don't you.'

I confess I do,' he acknowledged.
Cannot Brice do anything better for you ? '

'No one can in this world,' she gently
said. ' The last days here must come for us
all, and they are upon me. Ah, my dear,
if we, all of us, can but be prepared for
them !  you see I talk to you with the familiarity
of old days,' she concluded, a smile
upon her wan face.

I hope you will never talk to me in any
other way,' he said, with earnest impulse.
Do you remember how you used to lecture
me: "Henry, I will not have you do this" 
Henry, you must do the other ! " Why you
know you were as good to me as a mother.'

I like to sit and think of the days gone
by,' she said, ' and I very often think of you.
When we old people are no longer able to
employ our time at useful work we find
occupation in recalling the past ; a great
pleasure lies in it.'

'You are not old, dear Mrs. Dane.'

I am not quite fifty yet, my dear, but I
am old in one sense  that I am close upon
the end of life. Those who are so may
surely be called old, estimating age, you see,
by the duration of their time here. And, do
you know,' she added, in low, loving tones,
'that when we reach this stage we almost
long for the final change  for the better,
brighter fife which is waiting for us.'

But you must have regrets,' said Lord
Avon.

True. All must have them in a degree.
We cannot help regretting this world, the
only home we have known. It has not been

all sunshine ; rather, perhaps, one of storm ;
yet we know its best and its worst, and weare
entering one which we do not know, and
so there must always lie within us a half
wish to stay here longer. And then  and
then '

Mrs. Dane's voice sank to a whisper.
She paused.

And then ? ' he softly whispered.

And then God's loving Presence resumes
its sway within us with all its reassuring
comfort, and regrets are lost in a glow of
happiness. May it be with you, my dear,
when your own turn shall come ! '

Lord Avon swallowed down a lump in
his throat. Mrs. Dane's hand was still in
his ; he pressed it gratefully, and there
ensued a silence.

'It must seem hard to you, though, to
leave your children here.'

Yes, especially Edith. I have not seen

much of Charlotte since her marriage ; she
is coming down now to stay a week or two.
Edith is married also.'

'Yes,' he assented; but the subject was
not a pleasant one. Mrs. Dane pursued it.

'I feel anxious about Edith. I cannot
help fearing that she is not strong ; that if
the battle of life should prove fierce she will
not be able to breast it. She is lying down
now. Their income is small, and they have
no residence, as we had. Mr. Baumgarten
means to take pupils ; but there is a difficulty
in that also.'

In what way ? '

This cottage is not adapted for pupils,
it could not accommodate them ; and, besides
the risk which the taking a larger house
might involve, furniture would be needed 
and that also involves cost.'

'Yes,' said Lord Avon. 'Are there no
daily pupils to be had ? '

Not any ; not one that we can think of.
People like to send their boys out, now, to
public schools or large private ones. Some
nights I lie awake reproaching myself for
having sanctioned Edith's marriage. When
matters were first arranged for it Mr.
Baumgarten understood he was to have
Great Written  perhaps you know that.
And then, when it was found to have been
a mistake, he still said he would marry,
and I did not dissent. Of course it was
an awkward and unfortunate thing altogether,
and But I do not wish to

enter into it,' broke off Mrs. Dane. ' Edith
is very happy, and we must hope for the
best '

Let me say a word to you, dear Mrs.
Dane,' he interrupted ; ' I used to bring my
secrets to you in the days of yore. Do you
remember one in particular ? A boy got
into the pond of Great AVhitton, and was

nearly drowned, and I had the credit of
having pushed him in, and was punished for
it by Mr. Dane.'

I remember it well, Henry,' she said,
calling him unconsciously by the old familiar
name. ' It was Jack Whittaker.'

'Just so. Everyone fell upon my devoted
head, reproaching me with being a
wicked and cruel youngster, safe to come to
a bad end. I took their abuse quietly, and
I took Mr. Dane's punishment  a fearful
task of Greek, which to me was punishment
in earnest ; and when the thing was all over
and done with, I whispered the truth to you
one day in your dressing-room, as you were
sewing up a rent which I had torn in my
jacket-sleeve  that it was not I who had
thrown Whittaker into the pond. Did you
believe me ? '

Yes, my dear, I did believe you ; to me
you were ever truthful. You would not

tell fine who it was that threw him in,
though ; I recollect that.'

I'll tell you now. It was Jack himself.'
Jack Whittaker threw himself in ? '
Lord Avon nodded. ' He had been at
some mischief at Mr. Chester's  stealing the
apricots, I believe ; and he was getting away
when he heard a hue and cry behind him.
In his terror, for Whittaker was an arrant
coward, he dashed to the side of the pond,
meaning to hide himself among the rushes ;
missing his footing, he dashed right into it.
I was standing by and saw the process.
After all, the noise was not in pursuit of
him, but of a bill which had got loose from
Farmer Thorn's field.'

Why did you take the punishment ? '

When he floundered out, like a drowned

rat, I helping him, he begged and implored

of me not to say that he had jumped in. I

gave him my word I would not. That's

tow it was. Well, you believed me then,
dear Mrs. Dane, and I know you will
believe me Iiow. You have blamed me in
your heart for promising Great Written to
Mr. Baumgarten, and then annulling it by
bestowing it elsewhere, but  the fault did
not lie with me.'

No ! With Lady Avon, perhaps.'
No, no, no ; she wished Mr. Baum-garden
to have it. The whole affair was the
result of an unfortunate mistake. I committed
it, but in unconscious error, which
I and my mother alike regret. Suffer this
explanation to rest quite between ourselves,
please. I should not have made it but that
I cannot bear for the dear old friend of my
boyhood to think unkindly of me. I saw
Jack Whittaker the other day,' continued
Lord Avon, his tone changing to a lighter
one as he rose to depart. ' We met in
Piccadilly.'
Wot I. G

How is Jack getting on ? '

Very well, I believe. He has his post
in the Eed Tape Office and a good income
besides from his uncle's property. He told
me he had married a charming girl, asked
me if I would not go down to see her.
They hive on the banks of the Thames,
somewhere near Richmond.'

How long shall you remain here ? '
questioned Mrs. Dane, as she held his hand
in parting.

Only a few days. I am going into
Warwickshire for some shooting. Give my
love to Edith  if that's a proper message to
a young lady who is married,' he concluded,
laughing.

As he was walking homewards, a clergyman,
walking quickly, met and passed him.
A young man, tall and stately, whose dark,
deep-set, beautiful eyes looked somewhat
inquiringly at Lord Avon, and the latter

knew it must be the Eeverend Eyle Baum-garden.
But Mr. Baumgarten did not guess
that the unpretending, homely-faced stranger
was the nobleman who had served him that
cruel trick.

CHAPTER IV.

THE LAST Journey.

Mr. Baumgarten came softly forth from his
house in the brightness of the early summer
morning, closing the door noiselessly behind
him, that he might not disturb his wife
above. She was in delicate health, and he
had left her asleep. He Alas on his way to
a sick parishioner, now lying in danger.

When Mrs. Baumgarten awoke, not loncj
afterwards, she lay thinking of a dream she
had just had. So real and vivid did it seem
that at first she wondered where she was,
and looked round at the familiar objects of
the bedchamber in doubt.

Why, it was only a dream ! ' she

exclaimed. ' I am at home, and in my own
bed. But Where's Eyle ? '

It was unusual for him to be away so
early. Then she remembered that he had
said last night he must go at seven o'clock
to old Miss Knightley's, who was dangerously
ill.

Presently she got up, and dressed herself
with trembling fingers. She was weak, and
languid, and hot ; always in a fever now.
Looking about for the coolest dress she had,
she put it on : a black-and-white muslin.
They were in mourning for Mrs. Dane.
She had died the previous winter. Summer
had come round again, and it was nearly a
year now since Edith's marriage.

When she had quite finished  dressing,
and reading, and prayers  she sat down in
an easy-chair before the open window,
letting the' sweet morning air fan her hectic
face. The sun shone in the blue sky ; the

scent of new-mown hay came from a near
meadow, the hum of bees sounded drowsily
in the heat ; butterflies fluttered across the
green lawn from flower to flower.

As the clock struck eight Mr. Baum-garden
returned ; he nodded to Edith from
the garden, came in, and ran up stairs. It
was their breakfast hour.

I hoped to find you asleep still, Edith,'
he said. ' I wish you would breakfast in
bed!'

Oh, Eyle, I could not ; I am glad to
be up  bed tires me, I think. How is Miss
Knightley ? '

Somewhat better. Brice was there
before me. They think now she may rally.'

He was standing before her at the opposite
side of the window, partly leaning
from it.

Eyle,' she said, smiling, ' I have had
such a lovely dream ! '

Indeed ! It is not often you dream.
What was it?'

No, scarcely ever. When Charlotte
and I were children she used to tell her
dreams of a morning. I felt quite jealous,
because I never had any to tell.'

Well, what was this one ? '

I thought I had a long, long journey to
take, and as I set out from the door here
and walked down the path to the gate, I
looked round and saw you in the parlour
alone. I don't know where I went, or which
way; it was all strange to me. It seemed as
if I went miles and miles and miles ; more
than I can reckon ; more than there are
miles in the world. But oh, the way was
lovely. The air was so light and balmy that
I seemed to float along in an ecstasy. The
most enchanting flowers, sweeter and lovelier
and more brilliant than we can imagine out
of a dream, grew on each side the way. It

seemed that I had never known before what
happiness was, what enjoyment meant ; and
it was all so vivid that when I awoke I
thought it was reality.'

A pleasant dream,' remarked Mr. Baum-garden.
' How did it end ? '

'It had no ending. I was still gliding
along amidst the flowers when I awoke. It
took me ever so long to realise that I was in
my own bed and had not gone on that
beautiful journey.'

I hope the journey has made you
hungry,' he lightly said. 'Breakfast must be
waiting.'

Edith rose with a sioh ; siohinor after
those charming flowers, she said. Mr. Baum-garden
laughed.

Old wives tell us that a morning dream
comes true,' she remarked gaily, as they
went down stairs ; ' but I am sure this one
never will. We do not take those loner

journeys in this world, or see flowers so
bright.'

That dream occurred on Friday morning.
It was the last Friday in June. On the
Tuesday morning following Edith Baum-garden
was lying in extreme peril  the
doctors giving little hope of her life.

Mr. Baumgarten was sitting by her bedside,
holding her hand in his ; his tears were
kept back, his voice was low with suppressed
grief. ' Do not say " we have been happy,"
my darling ; say '' we are." I cannot part
with you ; there is hope yet.'

There is none,' she wailed  ' there is
none. Oh, Eyle, my husband, it will be a
hard parting ! '

She feebly drew his face to hers, and his
tears fell upon it. ' Edith, if I lose you,
I shall lose all that is of value to me in
life.'

A tap at the door, and then a middle-aged

woman, holding a very young infant in
her arms, put in her head and looked at
Mr. Baumgarten. ' The doctors are coming
up, sir.'

He Angered an instant after the medical
men entered the chamber, but he gathered
nothing, and could not ask questions there ;
so he left it and went downstairs. There,
his face pressed against the window, he stood,
thinking how unkind fate was to him.

On Sunday Edith had seemed better
than usual. When she left the church after
morning service she glanced up at the old
clock, saw that it wanted twenty minutes to
one, and that she should just have time to
go to Miss Knightley's and ask after her, for
they had not heard that morning.

She did not intend to go in ; but hearing
that the old lady was much better and sitting
up, Edith, pressed by the servant, went up
'just for a minute.' The minute lengthened

itself out, and as she left the house again,
one o'clock struck.

Dear me ! ' thought Edith, ' I shall keep
dinner and Eyle waiting. I must take the
near way home.'

The near way was the field way, and
would shorten the distance by about two
minutes. Edith came to the stile at the end
of the field ; haste made her careless, and in
getting over it she fell, rather heavily. It
did not hurt her that she knew of: the
doctors, when told of it, did not say so.
Mr. Baumgarten heard them leave the sick
chamber, and turned from the window to
receive them.

'Wells' he uttered, his tone fraught with
pain.

There is no improvement, sir ; there
can be none,' said the stranger who had
been called in, a very plain-speaking man.
If she could but have rallied  but she

cannot. She will sink, we fear, from exhaustion.'


'She may recover yet,' was the sharp
interruption, made in anguish ; ' I am sure
she may. But a few days ago, well ; and
now '

Mr. Baumgarten,' said Dr. Conway,
would it be right to deceive you  to give
you hope where none exists ? If we did, you
would blame us afterwards. The sad truth
is that she cannot be saved.'

Mr. Brice, lingering behind the physician,
laid his hand gently upon Mr. Baumgarten's
arm, his voice and eyes alike full of pity.

It must be God's wil, my friend. Try
to bear it.'

Mr. Baumgarten only answered with a
groan. ' Cannot you give me hope, Brice ? '

Alas,' said the surgeon, ' I have none to

give.

And yet, later in the day, she did seem a

little better : it was the rallying of the spirit
before departure. She knew it was deceitful
strength, but it put hope into the heart of
Mr. Baumgarten.

Eyle, if he should hive, you will always
be kind to him ? '

'Edith! Kind to him! Oh, my wife,
my wife,' he uttered, with a burst of irrepressible
emotion, 'you must not go, and
leave him and me.'

She waited until he was calmer; she
was far more collected than he.

You will love him ? ' she reiterated
faintly; 'you will always protect him
against the world's unkindness ? '

Ay ; that I swear to you,' he ardently
replied. And Edith Baumgarten breathed
a sigh of relief, and quietly lay back upon
her pillow.

Her voice, hardly to be heard at all, was
growing fainter and fainter. Her husband

thought it must be the faintness attendant
on death ; but for a short time she seemed
to sleep.

He sat on : his arm beneath her neck,
his other hand held one of her hands. All
was still ; so still that the ticking of Edith's
watch, lying on the dressing-table, was
audible. About ten minutes had thus
passed when a slight cry from the infant in
the next room, followed by the soothing
hush of the nurse, fell upon Mr. Baum-garden's
ear.

'Eyle! Eyle ! '

My dear ? ' he breathed, vexed that her
sleep should have been disturbed.

'I have been in that dream assail 
going on my long, long journey,' she said in
disjointed syllables. ' Oh, Eyle, I know it
now : it is the journey of death.'

'My dear wife!' he cried, much distressed.


The air is  oh, so sweet  and the light
at the far end so bright and lovely  and the
flowers  look at the flowers !  they are the
flowers of Heaven !  and  and  oh, look !
look! '

The tone, growing inaudible, had taken
a glad sound of ecstasy : and, with the last
word, the spirit passed away.

When the inhabitants of Little Written
rose up on Wednesday morning the church
bell was tolHng  proclaiming that poor
Edith Baumgarten, daughter of their late
pastor and wife of their present, had set out
on the long last journey.

Whether it be death that disturbs a
community, or whether it be birth or marriage,
time goes on all the same. After the
funeral of Mrs. Baumgarten the parish
flocked to Written Cottage to condole with
their rector and to see the baby. He

received them with quiet courtesy, but the
most sanguine sympathisers could not detect
any encouragement for a renewal of the
visit. All that could make life pleasant to
Mr. Baumgarten was as yet buried in the
grave of Edith.

Gradually he began to take notice of the
child ; at first he had avoided him. The
old servant, Dinah, dio had lived with the
Danes for years, took charge of him. Mr.
Baumgarten would sometimes have him on.
his knee now, and soon loved him with an
impassioned fondness. He had nothing else
to love.

Following close upon Edith's death, a
distant relative bequeathed a few hundred
pounds to Mr. Baumgarten. The money
came to him quite unexpectedly, and he
decided to use it in putting the rectory
into habitable repair. This was done;
and he moved into it with his two servants,

Ann and Dinah, both of them elderly
women.

Thus the months glided on to winter :
the rector fulfilling all his duties as of yore,
but leading a very lonely life. He was a
sociable man by nature and full of ambition;
but for him social ties seemed to beat
an end, and his position offered no prospect
whatever of change or advancement.
So far as the present look-out went, he
might expect to live and die at Little
Written.

One bright frosty day in January, when
the icicles shone in the sun and the blue
sky was cloudless, the open carriage of Lady
Avon drew up at the rectory gate, just as
the reader once saw it stop at that of
Written Cottage ; but it had only one occupant
now, and that was herself. After the
marriage of Mr. Baumgarten, Lady Avon
had occasionally attended Little Written
- VOL. T. H

church as heretofore, but Lady Grace never.
She had always excuses ready, and her
mother  who had never fathomed, or even
suspected, the true cause of Grace's caprice
as to the having  put faith in them. The
Countess declined to aught, and Mr. Baum-garden
went out to the gate.

Would it be troubling you very much,
Mr. Baumgarten, to come to Avon House
occasionally and pass an hour with me ? ' began
she, as they shook hands.

Certainly not, if you wish it,' he replied.
If I can render you any service I shall be
very happy to come.'

Lady Avon lowered her voice and bent
towards him. ' I am not happy in my
mind, Mr. Baumgarten ; not easy. The
present world is passing away from me, and
I know little of the one I am entering. I
don't like the rector of Great Written, he
does not suit me ; but with you I feel at

home. I shall be obliged to you to come
up once or twice a week and pass a quiet
hour with me.'

'I will do so. But I hope you find
nothing more than usual the matter with
your health.'

'Time will prove,' replied Lady Avon.
How is your little boy ? '

He gets on famously ; he is a brave
little fellow,' returned Mr. Baumgarten, his
eyes brightening. ' Would you like to see
him ? I will have him brought out.'

I should like to see him, yes ; but I
will come in.'

He helped her from the low carriage,
and gave her his arm up the path, and the
most comfortable chair by the parlour fire.
The child was brought in by Dinah  a
pretty babe in a white frock and black
ribbons, the latter worn in memory of his
mother.

H 2

Lady Avon took him on her knee.
'He will resemble you,' she said, scanning
his face ; ' he has your eyes exactly,
deep and dark '  and she had nearly added
'beautiful.' The child put his hand upon
her ermine boa.

My pretty boy ! ' she exclaimed fondly.
What is his name ? '

Cyras. I know it would have pleased
Edith to have him named after her father.'

Ah ! Poor Edith ! ' sighed Lady Avon,
as she gave the child back to Dinah and
rose. 'Not the least distressing; feature of
that loss was its suddenness. I wished I
could have come over to say farewell.'

Mr. Baumgarten sighed in answer, as he
again gave his arm to Lady Avon. ' By the
way,' she said, as he was settling her in the
carriage, ' I must congratulate you upon getting
into the rectory. You paid the cost of
the repairs yourself, I believe.'

Yes. I had some money left me unexpectedly,
and used it for the purpose.'

From your father ? '

Oh no ; from a very distant relative 
Colonel Baumgarten. My father has been
dead several years. He was a clergyman :
one of the Kentish rectors.'

Well, I am glad you are in it. Good-day.'


Good-day, Lady Avon. Home, James,'
he added to the postillion.

Mr. Baumgarten paid his first visit to
Avon House on the following day. Lady
Grace was alone in the room when he
entered, and it happened that she knew
nothing of his expected visit. It startled
her to emotion. However she may have
striven to drive away the remembrance of
Eyle Baumgarten, she had not done it ; and
her feelings of anger, her constantly indulged
feelings of jealousy, had only helped to keep

up her passion. Her countenance flushed
crimson, and then grew deadly pale.

Mr. Baumgarten took her hand, almost
in compassion ; he thought she must be
ill. 'What has been the matter?' he
inquired.

'The matter! Nothing,' and she grew
crimson again. 'Is your visit to mamma?
Do you wish to see her ? '

I am here by appointment with Lady
Avon.'

The Countess came into the room, and
Grace found that his visits were to be
frequent.

Did she rebel, or did she rejoice? Oh,
reader, if you have loved as she did, passionately,
powerfully, you need not ask.
The very presence of one so beloved is as
the morning light ; at his coming, it is as if
sunshine burst upon a night of darkness.
So had Grace Carmel felt when with Mr.

Baumgarten in the time gone by, so did she
feel again now, although he had belonged
to another.

From that day they saw a great deal of
each other, and in the quiet intercourse of
social life  of invalid life, it may be said, for
Lady Avon's ill-health was confirmed  grew
more intimate than they had ever been. Lady
Grace strove to arm herself against him : she
called up pride, anger, and many other adjuncts,
false as they were vain, for the heart
is ever true to itself, and will be heard. It
ended in her struggling no longer : in her
giving herself up, once more, to the bliss of
loving him unchecked.

Did he give himself up to the same, byway
of reciprocity ? Not of loving her  no,
it had not come to it ; but he did yield to the
charm of liking her, of finding pleasure in
her society, of wishing to be more frequently
at Avon House. He had loved his wife, but

she was dead and buried : and there are very
few men indeed who remain constant in
heart to a dead love, especially if she has
been his wife. The manners of Grace possessed
naturally great fascination : what then
must they not have been when in intercourse
with one she idolised? She was more
quiet than formerly, more confidential, more
subdued ; it was a change as if she had
gone through sorrow, and precisely what was
likely to tell upon the heart of Eyle Baum-garden.
But there was no acting now in
Lady Grace ; she was not striving to gain
him, as she had once done  she simply gave
herself up to the sweet dream she was
indulging and let results take their chance.
Mr. Baumgarten may be forgiven if he also
began to feel that existence might yet be
made into something pleasant as a dream.
Thus the time passed on to May.

The Honourable and Eeverend Wilfred

EUiotsen, claiming a dead earl for a father
and a live earl for a brother, was not, of
course, a light whose beams could be hid
under a bushel, more particularly as the live
earl was in the Cabinet. It therefore surprised
no one that when the excellent old
Bishop of Barkaway was gathered to his
fathers, and a lucky canon who held one of
the best livings in the kingdom was promoted
to his mitre, Mr. EUiotsen should step
into the canon's shoes, rich living and all.
This left Great Written vacant. As luck,
or the opposite, chanced to have it, Lord
Avon was on a few days' visit to his mother
when Mr. EUiotsen received his appointment.

Don't put such another as EUiotsen into
Great Written, Henry,' observed the Countess
to her son, ' or we shall have the parish in
rebellion.'

He has not succeeded in pleasing his
flock yet, then ? ' remarked his lordship.

'No. They have put up with him
because they had to do it ; they could not
help themselves. On fine days many of
them have gone over to Little Written.
There is no help for these cases, you see,
Henry ; sometimes it strikes me as being
very like a wrong which the Church ought
to rectify. I suppose you think me shamefully
unorthodox for saying so.'

Indeed I don't, mother ; I like people
to enjoy their own opinions, and I'm not
sure that I don't think with you. If I had
any decided views as to what church I went
to, or what parson I sat under  which I've
not at present,' added the Earl, with a
cough  'I might not be pleased if a man
holding adverse and unwelcome notions were
thrust upon me. We must consider the
Scotch ways preferable, I take it : they elect
their own pastor, I believe.'

After a trial of his preaching,' assented
Lady Avon.

And our plan is no end of bother to
the patron when a good living falls in,' continued
the young man. 'Seventeen letters
I have had this blessed morning, applications,
direct or indirect, for Great Written.
I have half a mind to reply through the
Times, and make one answer do for the
lot.'

Lady Avon raised herself from her sofa
and looked at her son. 'Do you want a
candidate, Henry ? '

He looked at her. ' Scarcely, mother,
with seventeen bold applications, and seventy
more behind them, peeping out.'

Henry, if you have no one especially in
view, let me name the rector this time. It
will perhaps be one of my last requests to
you.'

I'm sure I don't miicli care, mother. I
had heartburning enough over it last tune,
every man but the successful one thinking
himself ill-used. If your mind's set upon
any fellow I'll give it him at once, glad todo
it, and send off a stereotyped answer to
my correspondents : " Very sorry ; living's
given ; wish I had heard of your excellent
merits earlier." '

Then o-ive it to Mr. Baumsarten. He
is a deserving man, Henry ; he will restore
peace to the parish ; and as a preacher few
excel him.'

Lord Avon laughed a little as he sat
down to f\ice the sofa,

Whv, mother, Baumo'arten is the very
man I had in my own mind. I thought by
your preamble you must have fixed on
someone else. I would rather he had it
than any other parson in the world. I can
tell you that the smart the last contretemps

brought me lingers yet. Let it be Baum-garden
: we owe him a recompense.'

And that very day the Earl, afraid, possibly,
of fresh interference, personally offered
Great Written to Mr. Baumgarten, and
shook hands on its acceptance.

The news was soon made known. Great
Written, with its nine hundred a-year and
its handsome rectory, was presented to the
Eeverend Eyle Baumgarten. The churchwardens
threw up their hats, and looked in
at the school-house to tell the mistress that
the girls might unsew those white symbols
from the back tails of their cloaks. That
same evening Mr. Baumgarten presented
himself at Avon House. Grace Carmel was
standing amidst the rose-trees : she liked to
linger in the open air at the dusk hour, to
watch the stars come out, and to think of
him. But that she wore a white dress, he
might not have distinguished her in the

fading twilight. He left the open path to
join her.

It is a late visit, Lady Grace, which I
must apologise for ; I was called out to a
sick friend as I was starting, and detained
an hour,' he said; 'but I could not resist
coming to say a word of gratitude to Lord
Avon. He did not allow time for it this
morning when he called upon me ; went
away the moment he told me I was to have
the living, as if he wished to avoid my
thanks.'

He felt the hand he had taken in greeting
tremble within his, and he saw her
raise her other hand hastily and lay it on
her bosom, as if she would still its beating.
She answered him with a smile.

Your visit will not accomplish its object,
Mr. Baumgarten, for my brother is gone.
He left before dinner upon some matter of
urgent business in town. Mamma says

she is very glad that you will be nearer
to us.'

Perhaps I have to thank you for this,
as much as Lord Avon,' he said.

'Into; no, indeed: it was mamma who
spoke to Henry, or he to her ; they
arranged it between them. I  I '

What ? ' he whispered.

1 did not speak to him,' she continued,
filling up the pause of hesitation. ' That is
all I was going to say.'

But Mr. Baumgarten could not fail to
detect how agitated she was, and as he stood
there, looking at her downcast face in the
twilight, the remembrance of certain words
of his wife's came rushing over him, and he
felt a sudden conviction that Lady Grace
had loved him  and that she loved him still.
He forgot what had been ; he forgot the one
who had been once his idol ; and he yielded
himself unreservedly to the fascination

which had of late been stealing over his
spirit.

Her trembling hands were busy with the
rose-trees, though she could scarcely distinguish
buds from leaves. Mr. Baumgarten
took one hand, and placing it within his own
arm, bent down his face until it was on a
level with hers. ' Grace,' he whispered,
have we misunderstood each other ? '

She could not speak, but her hips turned
white with her emotion. It was the hour
of bliss she had so long dreamt of.

Grace,' he continued, in a tone of impassioned
tenderness, ' have we loved each
other through the past, and did I mistake
my feelings ? Oh, Grace, my best-beloved,
forgive me ! Forgive my folly and my
blindness ! '

With a plaintive cry of satisfied yearning,
such as may escape from one who suddenly
finds a long-sought-for resting-place,

Grace Carmel turned to his embrace. He
held her to him ; he covered her face with
his impassioned kisses, as he had once
covered Edith Dane's ; he whispered all that
man can whisper of poetry and tenderness.
She was silent from excess of bliss, but she
felt that she could have lain where she was
for ever.

You do not speak,' he jealously said ;
'you do not tell me that you forgive the
past. Grace, say but one word ; say you
love me ! '

Far deeper than another ever did,' she
murmured. ' Oh, Eyle ! I will be more to
you than she can have been ! '

Recollection, prudence  perhaps for her
sake  began to dawn over Mr. Baum-garden
; he smoothed the signs of emotion
from his brow, he would have put her
away.

Grace, pardon my folly,' he implored.
VOL. I. I

I am doing wrong ; I have forgotten myself
strangely. Forgive, forgive me ! It is madness
to aspire to you. I have no right to
seek to drag you down from your rank to
my level.'

But she clung to him still. 'Your own
wife, your own dear wife,' she whispered.
Eyle ! Eyle ! only love me for ever.'

It is a fact  and the longer we live the
more surely it must impress itself upon us 
that uninterested spectators see more of what
goes on around us than we see ourselves.
never had Lady Avon seen or suspected
aught of the case regarding her daughter
and Mr. Baumgarten.

The revelation came upon her with a
blow. It was Grace who, calling up her
courage, imparted it. Lady Avon went into
a storm of anger; and then, finding her
commands and reproaches produced no impression

upon Grace for good, wrote in haste
for Lord Avon.

An awful thing had happened, and he
must come without a moment's delay,
was what she curtly wrote; and the
word 'awful,' be it understood, was in
those days used only in its extreme sense,
not, as at present, in ridiculous lightness.
Lord Avon obeyed, swearing a
little at the contrariety of mundane affairs.
His urgent business in town was that of
witnessing the first appearance of a new
singer at the opera, and this mandate
stopped it.

'Ah,' remarked Lord Avon, as he sat
listening to his mother's tale, ' I can now
understand that past capricious trick Grace
played. She must even then have been in
love with Baumgarten.'

'Yes,' said Lady Avon, angrily; 'and
she must have found out that he was going

I 2

to marry Edith Dane. We cannot allow it
to go on, Henry.'

His lordship twirled his light brown
whiskers ; rather a habit of his when in a
puzzle.

I don't see how we can stop it,' he presently
said.

But it must be stopped.'

How will you do that, mother ? '

Voit must do it. You are the head of
the family.'

Lord Avon laughed lightly. ' Grace has
always wound me round her little finger.
Why, mother, I have no authority over her
whatever ; if I attempted to exercise any
she would simply set me at defiance.'

Lady Avon had no whiskers to twirl,
but she pulled at her cap-strings. "What
her son said was true.

Grace has had her own way ever since
she could toddle, you know, mother ; you

and my father took care of that. I didn't
get it half as much. My opinion is, she will
take it now. She is her own mistress, and
she has her own fortune  what little it is.'

'She cannot marry without your consent
; your father made that proviso in his
will, remember.'

Yes she can, mother. Before she was
of age she could not do so ; she can now.' .,

Lady Avon sat in bitter mortification.
What is to be done ? ' she asked.

The best plan, so far as I can see, will
be to put a good face upon it, and let her
have him.'

Nonsense, Henry ! '

It is not so bad as it might have been,'
went on the Earl. ' Baumgarten is a gentlemanly
fellow, and of fairly good descent.
You like him much, I believe.'

Good gracious ! ' retorted Lady Avon.
It is one thing to like a man as a clergyman,

and quite another thing to like him asa
husband for one's daughter. How absurd
you are, Henry ! '

Look here, mother mine : if you can
point out any feasible way of putting a stop
to the affair, I'll try to do it. / don't see
any.'

Why, he is a widower ! He has a
child ! '

Grace knows that. He is uncommonly
good-looking.'

Lady Avon's face was full of distressed
perplexity. ' Last autumn Lord Christen
came here with proposals of marriage to
her, and she refused him. In spite of all
I could say, she refused him absolutely.'

'Had got Baumgarten in her head, I
expect,' said the Earl, carelessly. ' Christen's
a good fellow ; I should like him to have
had Grace.'

Can't you talk to her ? '

'I will talk to lier  if she'll let me,'
assented Lord Avon. ' It wil do no good ;
rely upon that, mother. If Grace has made
her mind up to have Baumgarten, Baum-garden
she'll have. And I do think that the
pleasantness plan we can pursue will be to
sanction it.'

Do you approve of him for your brother-in-law,
pray ? '

No. Not altogether. My sister and
your daughter ought to have made a very
different match. But you know what
Grace is, mother, and circumstances alter
cases.'

It was the plan pursued. It was the
only pleasant plan, as Lord Avon had put it,
that could be pursued. For Lady Grace
held to her own will, and opposition would
only have created scandal. And the ears
of Great Written were regaled with the
astounding news that their new and popular

rector was on the eve of marriage with that
beautiful and haughty girl who had latterly
lived amidst them, the daughter of the
Countess of Avon.

CHAPTEE V.

THE LADS.

It was a long red-brick house, large and

handsome, as many of these country rectories

are; and on the spacious front lawn, one

glorious morning at the end of June, might

be seen the Reverend Eyle Baumgarten, his

wife and children. Lady Grace sat on a

bench under the shade of the lime-trees ; the

rector stood by, talking with her. Two

little boys were running about chasing a

yellow butterfly. They were dressed alike,

after the fashion of the day, in brown holland

blouses, white frilled drawers which

came just below the knee, white socks,

shoes, and broad-brimmed straw hats.

You keep still, Charley,' cried the elder
one, a bold, beautiful child of five years ;
you only frighten him, dodging in his way
like that.'

Me want to watch him, Cy'as,' said the
little one, who was just turned three, and
did not speak plainly ; ' me almost dot him.'

'I'm going to catch him for you,' said
the other, imperiously. ' You go back to
mamma.'

Let him stay where he is ; he can run
after the butterfly if he chooses, as well as
you. Master Cyras,' interposed a nursemaid
who was walking about, carrying a baby in
white.

It's nothing to you, Jaquet  you hold
your tongue,' retorted Cyras, for between
him and Jaquet there was no love lost,
especially Jaquet, as the Americans say.

A clever movement of his hat captured
the unfortunate butterfly. ' I've got him,

Charley ! ' shouted Cyras in triumph, and
the boys sat down together on the grass.

They were wonderfully alike, these two
little half-brothers, each possessing his father's
face in miniature ; the same pale, healthy
complexion, the fine, clear-cut features, the
dark eyes so deeply set within their long
lashes, and the wavy brown hair soft as
silk. But in disposition they were quite
different. Cyras was bold, self-willed, masterful
; Charles gentle, pliant and timid.
Cyras was tall and strong, and forward
beyond his years; the younger one was
yielding, childish and backward. Already
Cyras constituted himself his brother's protector,
and Charles in his hands was as a
tender reed. The affection between them
was great, rather unusually so.

Alien Lady Grace married she had
brought Jaquet with her, one of the housemaids
from Avon House, to be upper housemaid

at the rectory and to wait upon herself.
Dinah also came to it in charge of
little Cyras. Just as Lady Grace's first child,
Charles, was born, old Dinah was seized
with permanent illness, and Jaquet became
nurse to both children. Jaquet was good
and faithful on the whole, but she had her
tempers and her prejudices. She learned to
love the infant with ardour, but she learned
to dislike Cyras. This arose partly from
the fact that she had not herself nursed him
from the first, and partly because Cyras,
even when very little, would set her at defiance
in refusing to give in to her whims.

Some people had prophesied that Lady
Grace would repent her imprudent marriage.
They proved to be wrong. Grace was intensely
happy in it. To live quietly at a
secluded country rectory upon fourteen Kindred
a-year was very different from the
pomp which she had enjoyed as an earls

daughter, but Grace seemed to have found
her vocation in this unpretending Hfe.
Grace had brought with her only five hundred
a-year to augment Mr. Baumgarten's
means ; it was all she would enjoy until
Lady Avon's death. She made a fairly kind
stepmother to the little Cyras, but she had
not the same affection for him as for Charles.
That goes, as the French say, without telling.
Her baby, now in Jaquet's arms, was a fair
girl, the little Gertrude.

Well, Grace, what am I to say ? ' asked
Mr. Baumgarten.

Lady Grace did not answer at once ; she
appeared to be considering. It was some
question of a visit they were discussing.

'Eyle,' she said, raising her beautiful
face to look at him, ' I would rather not go.
I do not like that man.'

So be it,' he answered ; ' I would rather
stay at home myself. But why don't you

like him, Grace? Most people find him
charming.'

I can't tell why. I don't, and that's all
I am able to say about it.'

A case of Dr. Fell,' returned the rector
with semi-gravity ; and Lady Grace laughed.

'Yes, that's it, I suppose. My private
opinion is that his own wife does not like
him.'

I say, Grace, don't talk treason. The
birds in the trees up there might carry it to
the parish crier.'

I'll tell you one thing I saw, Eyle, the
last time we were there: I've never mentioned
it even to you,' she resumed, lowering
her voice in deference to the subject or to
the birds of the air. 'It was the evening
before we came away. After I dressed for
dinner I went to her room door and knocked,
calling out to ask whether she was ready
to go down. She opened it herself very

quickly; her face looked confused, and there
was a red mark on the left cheek, as if she
had just had a blow, and tears were in her
eyes. She only drew the door open an inch
or two, but I saw '

Lady Grace broke off at the sound of
wheels and did not finish her story. The
large, low, open carriage, which the reader
has seen before, driven by its liveried
postillion, was stopping at the gate. Mr.
Baumgarten hastened to assist Lady Avon
from it and give her his arm.

She walked slowly to the bench where
her daughter was sitting. She was just the
same invalid as ever, had been so all these
years ; but she did not seem to grow much
worse. The boys ran up to her.

Me dot a butterfly, grandma,' said the
little one, exhibiting his treasure. ' Cy'as
dot it for me.'

Grandmamma, it is my birthday,' said

Cyras, who had been allowed so to call the
Countess. ' Papa gave me a new book with
pictures, and mamma gave me a box of
sweets. Shall you give me anything ? '

'I must consider what I have to give,'
said Lady Avon smiling, as she kissed them
both. ' Let me see, is it five years old you
are to-day, Cyras ? '

Yes, I'm five,' answered the young man.
 I shall be a great big boy next year ; big
enough to go to school, Jaquet says.'

Jaquet, who had drawn near with the
baby, knitted her brows and made all the
dumb signs to the boy she dare make, as an
injunction to hold his tongue ; her lady was
not one to permit gratuitous suggestions. The
Countess held out her arms for the baby.

The boys are Uke their lather, Grace,'
she observed, looking down at the infant ;
'but Gertrude is like you.'

'Yes,' assented Grace, with a Laugh.

'Well, mamma, that is just as it should be,
isn't it ? '

I suppose it is, ray dear. Which of
you little boys will go for a drive with me ?
It must be you, Cyras, I think, as it is your
birthday.'

Oh, yes, yes ! ' cried the boy eagerly ;
I will go. Jaquet, fetch my best hat.'

Me too,' added little Charley.

No, I cannot manage both of you,' said
Lady Avon. 'You shall go another day,
Charley ; perhaps tomorrow.'

My hat, Jaquet ! ' again said Cyras
impatiently, for the girl had not stirred.
Lady Grace looked at her.

Do you hear ? ' she said, in her haughty
way. ' Master Cyras told you to fetch his
hat. Bring his little cape as well.'

Now this was just what Jaquet hated 
for Cyras to order her about imperiously,
and for her lady to confirm it.

VOL. 1. K

'Eyle,' said Lady Avon to lier son-in-law,
when Jaquet lead gone for the things,
can you not do something or other to put
down that Fair ? '

She spoke of a pleasure fair which was
held every midsummer onWhitton Common,
and lasted for a week.

The rector shook his head in answer.
Why, no ; how could I, Lady Avon ? '

You have great influence in the parish.
Everyone looks up to you.'

But I have none over the Fair, jo
one has. It possesses " vested interests," you
know,' added Mr. Baumgarten, laughing,
and they are too strong to be interfered
with. I try to induce my people to keep
away from it ; that is all I can do.'

'It is a very annoying thing,' said Lady
Avon. ' Every year that Midsummer Fair
sets itself up amidst us for a whole week,
and works no end of ill in demoralising

people. Eobert went off to it last night, and
got home, Charity tells me, at one o'clock
this morning, not sober. I spoke to him
just now, asking him if he did not feel
ashamed of himself, and he had the face to
tell me he was perfectly sober, but that the
merry-ground, which he unfortunately
went into, turned his head giddy.'

The rector bit his lips. Lady Grace
burst into a laugh. ' Mamma,' she said, ' do
you remember how I used to like to go to
that Fair on the children's day, as it is
called, when we first came down here ?
They had a theatre on the ground one year,
and I made Mademoiselle take me in to seethe
performance ; and there was always an
elephant in another show, and oceans of
delicious cakes and gingerbread nuts.'

'I'm going to the Fair tomorrow,' put
in Cyras.

Me too,' said Charley.

K 2

Certainly not,' austerely spoke Lady
Avon. ' Eyle, you surely will not so far
countenance the thing as to allow your
children to go ! '

'Well, I  hardly know,' replied Mr.
Baumgarten with hesitation. ' All the children
in the parish will be there tomorrow.'

'But not yours. It would be a direct
encouragement of evil for the children of the
rector to be seen there. You and Grace
know I never interfere with your management,
but I really must do so in this one
matter. The boys must not go to the Fair.'

Don't put yourself out, mother,' said
Lady Grace equably ; ' they shall not go, as
you make a point of it.'

I want to go, mamma,' cried Cyras
sturdily. ' Me and Charley are to go.'

'Be quiet, Cyras. You hear what
grand mamma says. The Fair is a naughty
place, not good for little boys.'

'The Fair is not a naughty place,'
disputed Cyras, looking his stepmother
undauntedly in the face while maintaining
his opinion. 'There's swings there, and
drums and whistles.'

I will have some drums and whistles
bought for you, my dear, and bring them
here, and some for Charley,' said Lady
Avon. ' And here comes your hat, Cyras ;
and we must be going, or we shall have
time for only a short drive.'

Jaquet put on the child's hat and cape.
Grace took the baby from her mother, and
Mr. Baumgarten escorted Lady Avon to the
carriage.

Be a good boy, Cyras ; don't be
troublesome to your grand mamma,' enjoined
the rector, as he placed the lad beside Lady
Avon.

Cyras could be very good indeed when
he pleased, quite an intelligent little company

ion, and he always was so when with
Lady Avon. Without being in the least
harsh in her manner to children, but ever
kind and firm, Lady Avon was one of those
women who seem to obtain obedience without
palpably exacting it. The only child
she had ever been too indulgent to, and not
firm with, Alas her daughter Grace. Cyras
talked to his grand mamma as they went
along, sometimes standing up  when Lady
Avon held him fast by his blouse  to talk to
the postillion about the pretty horses and the
harness, and Avhat not. Cyras was always
sociable.

Where are wee croino- o-randmamma ? '
asked he, as they turned into a green lane,
which led to a cross country road in the
opposite direction to the Fair, near which
Lady Avon would not have gone had she
been bribed to do so. ' It is very pretty this
way ; perhaps we shall see some haymakers.'

C3Tas was quite satisfied ; all roads vere
pretty miicli alike to him. They saw some
haymakers, and they saw some gipsies.

In returning home, when driving across
a strip of waste land or common, an open
carriage containing an old lady encountered
that of Lady Avon. Both carriages stopped
abreast, and the ladies entered into conversation.
It chanced that they had stopped
exactly opposite a gipsy encampment, the
sight of which gave Cyras unbounded delight.
He had never seen one before ; or, if he had,
had forgotten it.

The fires on the short grass ; the kettles
swung above them ; the tent behind ; the
children running about, and the dark, sunburnt
women looking up with smiling
faces, had a wonderful attraction for Cyras.
He wished he might get out and run to
them ; but just as he was wishing it the carriages
parted to move on.

Grandmamma, look ! Do look. Isn't
it nice ? '

Lady Avon turned to Cyras's side of the
carriage and saw the settlement ; she had
not before observed it. ' Dear me,' said shea
gipsy encampment ! I wonder they are
not at the Fair. The men are, I suppose ; I
see none about.'

What is it, grand mamma ? '

'A gipsy camp, my dear. They are
people who rove about the country, and
sleep in the open air at night, or in caravans.'


I wish I could. Do you see the fires,
grand mamma ? Couldn't we go to them ? '

'Oh, dear, no,' said Lady Avon, very
decisively. ' Little boys must never go near
such people.'

The carriage deposited Cyras at the
rectory gate as the clocks were striking one.
Lady Avon watched him enter, and then

drove on. Charley came running out of
doors to meet his brother.

Oh, Charley, I wish you'd been with
us ! ' began Cyras. ' We've seen something
beautiful.'

What is it ? ' asked Charles. ' Jam ? '

'It was gipsies. They had fires all
blazing on the ground  on the grass, you
know ; and there was a big round thing you
couldn't see inside of. I think there was a
rocking-horse in it,' added Cyras thoughtfully.


Take me to see it, Cy'as ! Please take
me ! Jaquet '

The child's words were cut short by
Jaquet herself, who came to hasten them into
their dinner.

The little boys dined at the luncheon
table. That day it happened that a clergyman
from a distance was present at the meal.
He and Mr. Baumgarten went into very deep

converse about some public church matters
which were not giving satisfaction. Lady
Grace joined in it ; thus Cyras found no
opportunity to tell of his experiences touching
the gipsy camp, as he would otherwise
have done. The children were trained on
the good old-fashioned plan  not to interrupt
the conversation of their seniors, or to speak
at all if strangers were present, unless spoken
to. It would be well if the same training
held sway at the present day.

Luncheon over, Mr. Baumgarten went
out at once with his friend. Lady Grace
proceeded to the nursery, and the boys
ran to their swing at the back of the
house.

About three o'clock Lady Alwyn and
her sister drove up. They came from a
distance, and generally stayed an hour or two
with Lady Grace, with whom they were
intimate, the carriage being put up for the

time. The days of afternoon tea had not
then come in ; people would as soon have
thought of ofTeriiig broth as tea before dinner ;
but wine and cake, the usual refreshment,
were rung for by Lady Grace, which the
man-servant, Moore, took in.

About four o'clock Jaquet went to see
after the boys. Her mistress had said they
had gone to the swing. Jaquet could not
see them anywhere, and ran round to the
front lawn. They were not there.

Do you know where the children are,
Moore?' she inquired, meeting the man in
the hall.

Xo, unless they're with my lady in the
drawing-room ; they were there when I took
in the wine and cake,' answered Moore.
He was a son of the clerk at Great Written
church, and had lived with Mr. Baumgarten
and Lady Grace since they first came to the
rectory, the only indoor man-servant.

Oh, then they are sure to be there ;
trust them for stopping where there's any
cake going on,' said Jaquet. And she went
back to her nursery and to the baby, then
just waking up out of sleep.

It was five o'clock when the carriage
was brought round and the guests went
away. Lady Grace ran up to the nursery.
A maid was carrying in the tray containing
the children's tea and Jaquet's.

'Where are they?' asked Lady Grace,
looking round.

Where's who, my lady ? ' returned the
nurse.

'The children.'

They have not been up here,' said
Jaquet. ' I thought they were with your
ladyship.'

They must be at the swing,' said Lady
Grace.

But the children were not at the swing ;

they were not in the front garden ; they did
not seem to be anywhere. Lady Grace
began to feel somewhat uneasy. She went
outside the gate and looked down the
avenue which led to the high road ; still she
did not think they would run off of their own
accord ; even Cyras had never done that.

Moore, Jaquet, and one of the housemaids
went about, searching the house and
grounds thoroughly ; all in vain. In the
midst of the commotion Mr. Baumgarten
came home.

Why, what's the matter ? ' he exclaimed,
seeing the assembled searchers at
the gate with excited faces.

The children are lost,' said Lady Grace.

Lost ! The children ! Oh, nonsense,'
said Mr. Baumgarten.

It appeared that the last seen of them
was when Moore took the wine and cake to
the drawing-room. Lady Grace was not

very clear as to low soon afterwards they
left it ; lie thought immediately ; but she
was quite sure they came into it only a
minute or two before Moore. They did not
have any cake ; did not wait until it was cut.

What time was it ? ' asked Mr. Barras


It wanted about a quarter to four, Moore
thought, when he took the tray in.

At this moment a youth, who had been
taken on that week to assist the gardener in
bedding out some plants, approached from
the side of the lawn, touching his caps to the
rector, and looking as if he wanted to
speak.

What is it, James ? '

I beg pardon, sir ; I saw the two little
gentlemen go through the sate this afternoon.
It was a little afore four o'clock.
They ran as fast as they could down the
avenue, their little legs did, as if afraid of

being overtook. Master Cyras held the
little one by the hand.'

Why did you not stop them ? ' demanded
the rector  which caused James to
open wide his eyes.

Me, sir ! I shouldn't make bold to
stop 'em, sir, without being felled to.'

'They have gone off to the Fair,' said
Mr. Baumgarten to his wife. ' I suppose
this comes of our having promised your
mother in their hearing that they should not
go to it.'

Then it's Cyras who is in fault,' said
she. ' Charles would not have the sense todo
such a thing, or the courage either.'

Of course not. He is too young [for
that yet awhile.'

Will they come to harm, think you,
Eyle.P'

Young monkeys ! ' he cried, half laughing,
as he walked away with a quick step in

pursuit. ' Harm, no ; don't worry yourself,
Grace ; I'll soon catch them up.'

The Fair was held on Written Common,
on the other side of the village, and near to
Little Written. There was also a way to it
through fields and shady lanes, and Lady
Grace bethought herself to despatch Moore
by that route, though it was hardly likely
the children had taken it.

In any kind of suspense time seems to
move on leaden wings. When an hour had
elapsed and did not bring the truants. Lady
Grace grew very uneasy. In her restlessness
she put on her bonnet and went down
the avenue to where the high road crossed
it, and stood there looking out. All the
stragglers passing by were going towards
the Fair ; none coming from it. Not one.

Of course not ! ' she impatiently cried.
It is just the time when the workpeople
are flocking to it,' and she turned back

home. This little excursion she repeated
twice or thrice.

About half-past six, standing again in
the road, lie saw Mr. Baumgarten hastening
back. But he was not leading a child in
each hand, as she had fondly pictured ; he
was alone.

I cannot see or hear anything of them,'
he said, in answer to his wife's impulsive
question. ' I don't think they can have
gone to the Fair.'

But where else would they be likely to
go,Eyle?'

Boyd has been sitting in his garden all
the afternoon, in full aim of the road ; had
his tea brought out to him there,' continued
Mr. Baumgarten, alluding to his curate, who
had been disabled the past week or two,
through an accident to his foot. ' He says
he could not have failed to see the little
ones had they appeared ; and he has been

VOL. T. L

watching the passers-by to the Fair by way
of amusement.'

Did you go on to the Fair, Style, and
look about in it ? Did you inquire of the
people ? '

Why, of course I did, Grace. I
searched all over it, in the booths and out
of them. Only a sprinkling of people had
collected ; it was too early. I inquired of
nearly everyone, I think, describing the
boys ; but they had not been seen.'

Just within the avenue leading to the
house there stood a bench, placed there by
Mr. Chester, the late rector, for the accommodation
of wayfarers. Mr. Baumgarten,
who was hot and tired, sat down on it.

You had better come in and have some
dinner, Eyle.'

Not now ; I must be off again.'

But where can you go now ? ' she
asked, taking a scat beside him.

I doii'L know where ; somewhere or
other. I can't rest m this uncertainty.'

Did you see Moore ? I sent him after
you, the field way.'

I saw him on the common. He had
not come across the young; ones.'

Two or three minutes longer they sat.
Mr. Baumgarten was utterly fatigued and
quite at a loss to decide which way would
be the best next to start upon, Grace
shivered inwardly, picturing the harm which
would come, or had come, to Charley.

Do you think they have been kidnapped,
Eyle . Both are beautiful boys.'

Ko, no,' said Mr. Baumgarten.

By degrees they became aware that
sundry people were speeding along the
highway one after another, not towards the
Fair, but in the other direction. 'Where
can they be G;oinor p ' cried Grace.  ' Has
anything happened? ' she inquired, running

to arrest one of them  a working-man from
a cottage hard by.

It's reported there has just been a
great landslip in that cutting they were
making for the railway, my lady, and some
people are buried under it,' answered the
man. ' One boy's killed.'

Lady Grace cried out in terror. ' Oh,
Kyle, Eyle, do you hear ? ' she moaned.
Thais where the children are gone. The
other day. when I had them out with me,
I could hardly get them past it. They
wanted to go down into the cutting.'

Mr. Baumgarten turned very pale.
Hush, my dear,' he said in a low tender
tone, ' we must hope for the best. I will 
here comes Brice ! '

Yes, I'm afraid it is a serious accident,'
began the doctor, in answer to their
emotional faces. ' A fellow has just runover
to tell me. What do you say ? 

What?  The children there ! Bless my
heart ! '

Go indoors, my love ; keep yourself as
tranquil as you can while I go on with
Brice whispered Mr. Baumgarten to his
agitated wife.

Indoors ! In that suspense ? No ! Lady
Grace could not be tranquil enough for that.
She paced about the avenue, and sat down
on the bench, and stood in the highway
watching the runners speeding to the scene ;
all by fits and starts. Twilight was coming
on when she saw her husband returning.
Mr. Brice was with him.

The lands had not been so bad as
reported. Landslips and other mishaps
rarely are. Two men only were injured,
and the boy spoken of; none of them
mortally, and Mr. Brice had attended to
them. No trace had been found there of
the children.

I'm sure I don't know where to look
now,' said Mr. Baumgarten, this voice betraying
his weariness. ' Grace, I believe I
must snatch some refreshment before I go
out again.'

She put her arm within his at once and
led him down the avenue. ' Are you
coming too, Mr. Brice ? ' she said, holding
out her hand. ' That's right. I'm sure you
must need something.'

Tea was brought in, and some hastily-cut
sandwiches. In ten minutes they were
out of doors again.

They are at the Fair, those young
rebels, rely upon that,' spoke ]mr. Brice, purposely
making light of the matter. ' You
must have missed them, Baumgarten.'

I think so too,' added Lady Grace.
'I think you should go there again,
Kyle.'

Just as she was speaking, and they were

walking slowly clown the pati, the gate
opened and a group came in. A tall man,
with flashing black eyes and a yellow skin,
evidently a gipsy, and  the two boys. He
was carrying Charley in his arms ; Cyras
trotted beside him.

Mamma, mamma ! ' cried Charley.
And Grace Baum smarten wondered whether
she had ever before given such heartfelt
thanks to God.

Instead of advancing to meet the children
and the man, Mr. Baumgarten suddenly
sat down on a garden seat. The same
curious sickness, or pain, or oppression  he
hardly knew wdiat it waswhich had attacked
him once or twice before, seized him
now. Mr. Brice and Lady Grace were
asking questions.

'Yes, master,' said the man, addressing
Mr. Brice, ' when we got back to the women
and children this evening: these two little

gents was there with 'em round the fire ; so
I set off again and brought 'em home.'

How could you be so naughty, Cyras,
as to run away ? ' cried Lady Grace.

'I wanted to show Charley the gipsy
camp,' replied Cyras.

Were you not afraid, Charley, to go all
that way ? ' she continued.

Me not afraid with Cy'as,' said the little
one.

I took care of Charley,' put in Cyras,
as if he had been a giant of strength.

Looking white and ill, Mr. Baumgarten
came forward. The paroxysm had passed.
He spoke a few heartfelt thanks to the man
and rewarded him, and took him indoors
that something to eat and drink might be
given to him.

'I shall never speak against gipsies
again,' impulsively declared Lady Grace
Baumgarten.

CHAPTER YI.

IN THE Cathedral.

The shades of twilight were fast gathering
on the aisles of the old cathedral, and the
congregation, assembled in the choir for
afternoon service, began to wonder whether
the chanter would be able to finish without
a light. The beautiful colours of the
painted east window were growing dim 
exceedingly beautiful were [they when the
sun illumined them.

It was a full congregation, unusually
numerous for a winter's afternoon, and one
that threatened rain. The Bishop of Den-ham
occupied his throne ; the Dean, a
younger man and very handsome, sat in his

stall. By this side was a boy of ten, or
rather more ; lie possessed the Dean's own
face in miniature, and there could be no
mistaking that they Averse father and son.
Underneath the Dean was the pew of his wife,
and with her was another boy, somewhat
younger, but bearing a great resemblance
to the one by the Dean. She was a fair,
beautiful woman, with stately manners and a
haughty face ; in age she may have been a
year above thirty, though she did not look it.
Lord Avon, through influential friends,
had taken care of his brother-in-law's preferment,
and Eyle Baumgarten had been
made Dean of Denham, and had taken his
doctor's degree. He still retained the living
of Great Written, as he was able to do,
and he and Lady Grace spent part of the
year at it. This afternoon he is presiding in
his cathedral, and his wife, as already observed,
sits beneath him. Cyras sits with

the Dean, Charles with his mother. Now
they are all rising for the anthem.

The anthem was a short one this afternoon
; it was soon over, and the congregation
knelt again. Meanwhile the atmosphere had
grown darker.

The chanter, an elderly man with a
round face and bald head, bent his spectacles
nearer and nearer to his book, and
the Dean, quietly pushing back the curtain
beside his own stall, leaned down, whispered
a word to one of the bedesmen who were
congregated on the steps inside the choir
entrance. The old man shuffled out, and
presently shuffled in again with a flaring
tallow candle, which he carried to the
chanter's desk. The chanter gave him a
nod for the unexpected accommodation, and
went on more glibly. He had seen a light
taken to the organ loft before the commencement
of the anthem.

The service concluded, the Bishop gave
the blessing, and the congregation left the
choir, but they did not leave the edifice ;
they waited in the body of the cathedral to
listen to the music, for the organist was
treating them to some of the choicest morceaux
amongst his voluntaries. He was an
eminent player, and now and then chose to
show them that he was so, and would keep
them, delighted listeners, full half an hour
after the conclusion of afternoon service ;
and sometimes he had to do so by order of
the Dean.

The Bishop had little ear for music, but
liked stopping in the cathedral, and the
social chat it afforded, very well. He slowly
paced the flagstones by the side of the
Dean's wife, the respectful crowd allowing
them a wide berth ; Dr. Baumgarten stood
close to the railings of a fine monument,
partly listening, partly talking, to the sudden.

It was the month of November, the
audit season, therefore all the great dignitaries
of the cathedral were gathered in
Denham.

What's that now, Lady Grace ? ' asked
the Bishop. 'It's something like Luther's
Hymn ; variations on it, possibly.'

Lady Grace Baumgarten coughed down
a laugh ; but she knew the Bishop's musical
deficiencies. 'It is from a symphony of
Mozart's : your lordship does not listen.'

'Mozart, eh? I can distinguish a tune
well enough dien they sing the words toit,
and I know our familiar airs, " God save
the Queen," and the ' Bluebells of Scotland'*
and such like, but when it comes to these
grand intricate pieces I am all at sea,'
spoke the Bishop, in his honest simple-mindedness.
' How are the children, Lady
Grace ? '

Quite well, thank you. The two boys

are here. I don't see them just now, but
they are somewhere about.'

Lady Grace could not see them, and fora
very good reason  that they were not
there. The eldest, an indulged boy and
wilful, had scampered out to the cloisters
the moment he could steal away from the
paternal surplice, drawing his brother with
him.

Charley,' quoth he, ' it's come on to pour
cats and dogs, and I promised Dynevor to go
out with him after college. You 20 in and
bring me my top-coat.'

Oh, Cyras, don't send me ! Let me
stop and listen to the organ.'

'You stupid little monkey! Come, be
off; or else you know what you'll get.'

But the music Avill be over, Cy,' pleaded
Charles, who was little and yielding and timid
still, and completely under the dominion of
masterful Cyras.

The music be bothered ! Here, take
my Prayer-book in with you. Such nonsense
as it is of mamma, to make us bring
our Prayer-books to college when there are
the large books in the stalls, ready for use !
Look you, Mr. Charles, I'll allow you three
minutes to get back here with the coat, and
if you exceed it by half a second you'll
catch a tannin.'

Master Baumsfarten took out his watch 
an appendage of which he was excessively
proud  as he spoke ; and Charley, knowing
there was no appeal against his imperious
brother, laid hold of the Prayer-book,
and flew off through the covered passages
which led into the Deanery from the
cloisters.

Cyras amused himself with hissing and
spitting at an unhappy cat, which had by
some mischance got into the inclosed cloister
graveyard ; and, just before the time was

up, back came the child, all breathless, the
coat over his arm.

Cyras snatched it from him, thrust an
arm into one of its sleeves, and was attempting
to thrust the other, when he discovered
that it did not belong to him. Charley had
by mistake brought his own, and Cyras
could not, by any dint of pushing, get into
it. His temper rose ; he struck the child a
smart tap on the cheek, and then began to
buffet him with the unlucky coat. But he
took care not to hurt him. It was all show.

You careless little beggar ! What the
bother did you bring yours for? Haven't
you got eyes ? Haven't you got sense ?
Now, if '

Halloa ! what's up ? What's he been
at now, Cy ? '

The speaker was Frank Dynevor, Cyras
Baumgarten's especial chum when he was at
Denham. He was considerably older than

Cyras, but the latter was a forward boy of
his years, and would not acknowledge a
companion in one of his own age.

I sent him in for my coat, and he must
bring his,' explained Cyras. ' A tanning
would do him good.'

Of course it would,' said Frank Dynevor.
What's he crying for ? '

For his sins,' said Cyras.

The tears stood in Charles's eyes :
nothing grieved him so much as for Cyras
to be angry with him.

He cries for nothing,' went on Cjrras,
and then they get him into the nursery and
give him sugar-candy. Mamma and old
Jaquet make a regular molly of him. Jow,
Master Charles, perhaps you'll go and get
the right coat. It's his fault that I keep
you waiting, Dynevor.'

I am not going,' said Dynevor. ' They
began a row at home about my running out

VOL. I. M

in the rain, so it's stopped, and I came to
tell you. Here, Cy, come down this way.'

The two boys, Dynevor's arm carelessly
cast on the shoulder of Cyras, strolled off together
along the cloisters towards the obscure
exit which led to the Dark Alley, Cyras
having tossed the coat on to Charley's head,
nearly throwing him off his legs. Charley
disencumbered himself, and espying some of
the college boys, with whom he kept up a
passing acquaintance when at Denham, he
joined them. They were emerging noisily
from the schoolroom, after taking off their
surplices : music had no charms for them, so
they had not remained amidst the listeners
in the cathedral.

Now there was a charity school in Den-ham
for the sons of small parents, where
plain learning was taught : the three E's,
with a smattering of history and other matters.
It was a large school, its numbers

averaging four or five times those of the
foundation school in the cathedral ; and
from time immemorial the gentlemen on the
college foundation, called the King's Scholars,
and the boys of the charity school had been
at daggers drawn. The slight pastimes of
hard abuse and stone-throwing were indulged
in whenever the opposition parties
came into contact and circumstances permitted,
but there occurred sometimes a more
serious interlude  that of a general battle.
Animosity at the present time ran unusually
high, and, in consequence of some offence
offered by the haughty college boys in the
past week, the opposition boys (favoured
possibly by the unusual darkness of the
afternoon) had ventured on the unheard-of
exploit of collecting in a body round the
cloister gate to waylay the King's Scholars
on their leaving the cathedral at the close
of afternoon service. The latter walked into

is

the trap and were caught ; but they did not
want for 'thick,' and began laying about
them right and left.

The noise penetrated to the other end of
the cloisters, to the ears of the two lads
parading there, and away they tore, eager
to take part in any mischief that might have
turned up. The first thing Cyras saw was
Ms brother Charles struggling in the hands
of some half-dozen of the enemy, and being
roughly handled. Of course, having been
with the college boys, he was taken for one
of them ; and being a meek little fellow,
who stood aghast in the melee, instead of
helping on the assault  besides looking remarkably
aristocratic, a great crime in their
eyes  he was singled out as being a particularly
eligible target.

All the hot blood of Cyras Baumgarten's
body rushed to his face and his temper: if
he chose to put upon Charley and ' tan ' him,

he was not going to see others do it. He
Hung off his jacket and his cap, threw
them to Dynevor, and with his sturdy young
fists doubled sprang upon the assailants.
What a contrast, when you come to think
of it ! The stately, impassive Dean, master
of his cathedral, and standing in it at the
present moment, the cynosure of neighbouring
eyes ; the elegant Lady Grace with her
rank and beauty, both of them particularly
alive to the convenances of civilised life ; and
the two young Baumgartens, just beyond earshot,
taking part in a juvenile fight, as fierce
as any Irish row. Ah, good doctors of
divinity, fair Lady Graces, your sons maybe
just as disreputably engaged behind your
backs, little as you may suspect it, unworthy
of belief as you would deem it.

What would have been the upshot it is
impossible to say  broken noses certainly,
if not broken legs had not the master of

the opposition boys come up : a worthy
gentleman and martinet, whom the whole
lot dreaded more than anything alive. He
had scented, or been told of, the expedition,
and he had hastened to follow it, and bringdown
upon those fractious heads the weight
of his wrathful authority. The very moment
his portly figure was caught sight of off flew
the crew in ignominious alarm, the college
boys raising a derisive shout after them, and
then decamping to their own homes. A
good thing for them, and that it was over
and done with before their masters came
out of the cathedral.

Dynevor, who was hand-in-glove with
some of the senior boys, returned Cyras's
jacket and cap to hin, and went away with
his friends ; and the two Baumgartens were
left alone. Charles was crying and shaking,
Charles's nose was bleeding, and down sat
Cyras in a corner of the now deserted cloisters,

and held the child to him, as tenderly
as any mother could have done.

Don't cry, Charley dear,' quoth he,
kissing him fondly. ' I know that biggest
fellow that set upon you, and I'll pay him
off as sure as he's a snob. I'd have paid
them off now if they had waited, the
cowards, and I don't care if they had
killed me for it. Where did they hit you,
Charley?'

They hit me everywhere, Cyras,' sobbed
the child, who, though barely two years
younger than his brother, was as a baby
compared with him in hardihood and in
knowledge of the world  if the remark maybe
applied to a young gentleman rising
eleven. ' Oh, how my nose bleeds ! '

Cyras with his own white handkerchief
kept wiping the suffering nose, kissing Charley
between whiles.

Charley dear,' he began, between the

latter's sobs, ' if I hit you sometimes it isn't
that I want to hurt you, for I love you very
much, better than anything in the world.
You mustn't mind my hitting you ; I'm used
to hit, and it'll teach you to be a man.'

'Yes,' breathed Charley, clinging closer
to Cyras, whom, in spite of the latter's imperiousness,
he dearly loved. ' I know you
don't do it to hurt me.'

No, that I don't. I don't hurt you ever
do I, Charley?'

No, never,' sobbed Charley. ' It's only
that I'm afraid you are angry with me.'

'But I'm not,' disclaimed Cyras. 'There's
not a soul in the house cares for you as I do,
and I'll stand by you always, through thick
and thin.'

Mamma cares for me, Cyras.'

After her fashion,' returned Mr. Cyras.
She makes a girl of you, and pets you up to
the skies. But I'll fight for you, Charley;

I'll never let a hair of your head be touched
when we go together to Eton or Rugby,
whichever it's to be.'

I hope I shall get brave like you, Cy.
I think I shall, when I am as big as you :
nurse says you were not much better than
me when you were as little.'

 ' Oh, I'm blest, though ! ' returned Cyras,
not pleased with the remark. ' Who says it? '

Jaquet.'

'Jaquet had better say that to me.
She's a nice one ! I never was a molly,
Charley ; I never had the chance to be ; she
knows that, and she must have said it just to
humour you. Why now, only see what a
girl they make of you : they keep you in
these dandy velvet dresses with a white frill.
And they don't let you stir out beyond the
door, unless there's a woman at your tail to
see you don't fall, or don't get lost, or some
such nonsense ! '

Poor unhappy, timid Charley caught up
his sobbing breath.

And then, look at mamma  taking you
into her pew on Sunday ! Never was such
a spectacle seen before in Denham Cathedral,
as for a chap of your age to sit in the ladies'
seats. I'd rather be one of those snobs than
I'd be made a molly of.'

'Don't call me a molly, Cy,' urged the
child.

It's not your fault,' returned Cyras,
kissing him still, ' it's theirs. You have a
brave heart, Charley, for you won't tell a
lie, and you'll be brave yourself when they'll
let you. I'll make you so. I'll teach you,
and I'll love you better than all of them put
together. Does your nose pain you now,
Charley dear ? '

Not much. I was frightened.'

A little while longer they sat there,
Cyras soothing the still sobbing child, stroking

this hair, wiping this eyes, whispering
endearing names; and then they got up,
and he led him affectionately into the
Deanery, through the covered passage.

A couple of pretty objects they looked
when they entered the well-lighted residence I
Both their faces smeared with blood, with
Charley's velvet dress and his 'white frill,'
and Cyras's shirt front ; for the latter, in his
caresses, had not escaped catching the stains.
The Dean and Lady Grace had not entered,
for all this had taken place in a very short
space of time, and the organist was still
playing. Cyras smuggled Charles into the
nursery.

'Oh, my patience!' uttered the nurse,
who was sitting there with her charge, a
lovely little lady between five and six years
old, Gertrude Baumgarten, who had been
kept at home from college that afternoon
with an incipient cold. ' You wicked boys,

what have you been up to? This is your
work, I know, Master Cyras ! '

Is it !  who gave you leave to know ? '
retorted Cyras. He was no more friendly to
Jaquet than he used to be, or she to him.

Gertrude backed in fear against the wall,
her eyes, haughty and brie as were her
mother's, wide open with astonishment. She
did not like the appearance of things, and
began to cry.

'Now don't be such a little stupid,
Gerry,' exclaimed Cyras ; ' there's nothing to
cry for. Charley's nose bled, and it got onto
our clothes.'

'Yes, it's me that's hurt, Jaquet,' put
in Charley, remembering his grievances and
giving way again. ' It isn't Cyras.'

Of course it's not,' indignantly returned
Jaquet ; ' what harm does he ever come to ?
You have been striking him, that's what you
have been doings. Master Cras. You've

been thumping him on the nose to make it
bleed.'

It's nothing to you if I have,' retorted
Cyras in choler. 'You just say it again,
though, and I'll strike you.' He disdained
to say it was not so, or to defend himself;
he was of by far too indifferent a temperament.


 Oh, nurse  look ! look ! ' screamed out
the little girl.

It was supplemented by a sharp scream
from Charley ; his nose had begun to bleed
again; and at that moment there was another
interruption. The room door opened,
and the Dean and his wife entered; the
former still wearing his surplice and hood,
and carrying his trencher, for they had been
hurriedly disturbed by the noise as they
came in from the cathedral.

The nurse, whose temper was not a remarkably
calm one, and who disliked the

daring Cyras, was busy getting hot water
and a basin.

Look at him, my lady, look at him,'
cried she ; ' and it's Master Cyras's doings.'

'What does all this mean?' demanded
the Dean, his eyes wandering from one boy
to the other, from their faces to their
clothes, his ears taking in the sobbing and
the crying. ' What is it, I ask ? ' he sternly
continued, for no one had replied.

The Dean might ask again and again,
but he was none the nearer getting an
answer. Charley, his head over the basin,
was crying, and in too much fear and excitement
to hear the question. The sight of
only a cut finger had always terrified him.
Cyras had one of his independent, obstinate
fits coming on, and would not open his lips
in explanation or self-defence.

Cyras thumped Charley's nose to make
it bleed, papa,' said the little girl, unconsciously

improving upon Jaquet's assertion.


How dared you hit him ? ' exclaimed
Lady Grace, turning to Cyras.

The boy looked at her but did not
answer. She took it for bravado. Her
passion rose. 'You are growing a perfect
little savage ! ' And raising her delicately-gloved
hand in the heat of the moment, she
struck Master Cyras some tingling blows
upon his cheeks. Dr. Baumgarten, deeming
possibly that to stand witness of the scene
did not contribute to the dignity of the Dean
of Denham, just escaped from service in his
cathedral, turned away, calling upon Cyras
to follow him.

It was not Cyras, however, who followed
the Dean ; it was Lady Grace. He
had gone to his own study, had laid down
his cap, and was taking off his sacred vestments
himself, dispensing with the customary

aid of his servant. His wife closed the
door.

Eyle, how is this to end ? ' she asked.

What do you mean, Grace ? '

I mean about Cyras ; but you know
very well without my telling you. The boy
has been indulged until he is getting the
mastery of us all. He positively struck
Gertrude the other day.'

As Jaquet chose to interpret it,' said
the Dean. ' I inquired into that. Cyras
gave the child a tap on the arm. Of course
he ought not to have done even that, and I
punished him for it.'

You cannot see his failings, Eyle ; you
supply him with an unlimited command of
money '

Unlimited ! ' again interrupted the Dean.
You speak without thought, Grace.'

'I think too much,' she replied. 'I
have abstained hitherto from serious remonstrance,

for if ever I have interfered by a
word, you have attributed it, I feel sure, to
a jealous feeling, because he is not my own
child. But I now tell you that something
must be done : if that boy is to stop in the
house and rule it, I won't. I will not allow
him to ill-treat Charles : I will not, I say.'

Hush, Grace, you are excited. Remember
the day.'

I do not forget it. Your son did, probably,
when he struck Charles.'

I cannot think he struck him  in that
fierce manner.'

Why, you saw the proofs,' she retorted.
Don't you mean to inquire into it  and
punish him ? '

I certainly do  if you will only allow
me time, Grace. Much has not been lost
yet.'

If you have any feeling for your other
children, you will take measures by which

VOL. I. Is

this annoyance may be put a stop to ; it is tome
most irritating.'

Lady Grace left the room, and the Dean
rang the bell, despatching the servant who
answered it for Master Baumgarten. Cyras
had not yet gone the length of disobeying
his father's mandates, and attended as soon
as he had been, what the nurse called, ' put
to rights,' meaning his unsightly shirt
changed for a clean one. Charley, his nose
shiny and swollen, but himself otherwise in
order, stole in after him.

Now, Cyras,' began the Dean, ' we
must have an explanation, and if you deserve
punishment you shall not escape it. I did
not think my boy was a coward, still less
that he would ill-treat his younger brother.'

The colour flashed into the cheeks of
Cyras, and a light into his eyes. But he
would not speak.

Come hither, Charles. Do you see his

face, sir ? ' added the Dean, taking the child's
hand. ' Are you not ashamed to look at it,
and to reflect that you have caused him all

this grief and pain '

Papa,' interrupted Charles, ' it was not
Cyras who hurt me. It was the snobs.'

It  was  the  what ? ' slowly uttered
the Dean, his dignity taken a little aback.

Those chanty boys. Frank Dynevor
calls them snobs, so does Cyras. I was with
the college boys in the cloisters, and they
set upon us ; there were five or six upon me
all at once, papa ; they hit me on the nose,
and I daresay they would have killed me,
only Cyras came running up and fought with
them, because I was not strong enough, and
got me away. And then he sat down in the
cloisters and nursed me as long as I was
frightened, and that's how the blood got
upon his clothes.'

The Dean looked from one to the other.

N 2

Was it not Cyras who hurt you then ? I
scarcely understand.'

Cyras loves me too much to hurt me,'
cried Charley, lifting his beautiful, deeply-set
brown eyes, just like Cyras's, just like
the Dean's, to his father's face. ' He was
kissing me all the time in the cloisters ; he
was so sorry I was hurt ; and he says he
loves me better than anybody else in the
world, and he'll pay off that biggest snob the
first time he sees him. Don't you, Cyras? '

The boy turned caressingly to Cyras.
Cyras looked red and foolish, not caring to
have his private affections betrayed for the
public benefit, and he shook off Charley.
Dr. Baumgarten drew Cyras to him, and
fondly pushed his hair from his forehead.

Tell me about it, my boy.'

Charley was just talking to some of the
college boys, papa, and those horrid charity
snobs '

'Stop a bit. What do you mean by
snobs " ? Very vulgar word, Cyras, and a
wrong one for you to use. Of whom do
you speak ? '

Oh, you know that big parish school,
papa : well, they are always setting on the
college boys, and they came up to the
cloisters this evening, and Charley, being
with the boys, got in for his share of pummelling,
and I beat the fellows off him.
That's all.'

Why did you not say this to your
mamma in the nursery ? You made her
angry with you for nothing.'

Cyras shook back his head with a somewhat
defiant movement.

Mamma's often angry with me for nothing,
as far as that goes. I don't care.
As to Jaquet,' he added, drowning a warning
gesture of the Dean's, ' she's always
telling stories of me.'

Now what do you mean by saying, ' I
don't care," Cyras ? It is very wrong to be
indifferent, even in speech.'

I mean nothing, papa,' laughed the boy.
Only I can fight my own battles against
Jaquet, and I will She has no business to
interfere with me when she hates me so
much ; let her concern herself with Charles
and Gertrude.'

The Dean left the boys together, and
went in search of his wife. He found her
in her chamber. She had taken off her outdoor
things, and was now in her dinner
dress. The attendant quitted the room ashe
entered it.

Grace,' said he, going up to her, ' there
has been a misapprehension, and I have come
to set you right. Charley got into an affray
with some strange boys in the cloisters (the
details of which I shall make it my business
to inquire into), and Cyras defended him

against them  going into them no doubt
like a young lion, for lie possesses uncommon
spirit  too much of it. We have been casting
blame on Cyras unnecessarily.'

Lady Grace lifted her eyes to her husband.
She knew him to be an honourable
man (putting out of the question his divinity
and his deanship), and that he would not
assert a thing except in perfect good faith.

Do you mean that Cyras did not beat
Charles ? '

He did not. He protected him.'
Why did not Cyras say so, then ? '
His spirit in fault again, I suppose ; too
proud to defend himself against an unjust
imputation,' replied the Dean. But the
Dean was wrong, unhappily ; Cyras was too
carelessly indifferent to defend himself. The
Dean continued : ' I ordered Cyras before
me, and began taking him to task. Charles,
who had come in with him, spoke up eagerly,

saying Cyras had fought for him, to defend
hin from his assailants, not against him.
You should have heard the child, Grace,
telling how Cyras sat down and nursed him
afterwards in the cloisters, kissing him and
wiping the blood from his face, and whispering
him how he loved him better than anything
else in the world. Grace, those two
will be affectionate, loving brothers if we do
not mar it.'

Lady Grace felt that she had been unjust
in striking Cyras, as well as guilty of an
unladylike action, and perhaps she felt more
contrition at the moment than the case really
warranted.

How mar it ? ' she faltered.

The Dean put his arm round his wife's
waist before replying. ' Grace, you best
know what is in your heart  whether or not
there is a dislike towards Cyras rankling
there. I think there is, and that it makes

you unjust to him. If you are not very
cautious it may sow dissension between the
children.'

Grace Baumgarten burst into tears, and
laid her face caressingly upon her husband's
breast : she loved him ahiiost as passionately
as she had ever done. 'Rule,' she whispered,
' if there be any such feeling, it is
born of my love for you.'

He smiled to himself. ' I know it, my
dearest ; I know that you remember he is
not your child ; yet that does not make the
feeling less inexcusable.'

Oh, but you are mistaken in using such
a word,' she spoke up, rallying herself.
Dislike ! Eyle, I do not dislike Cyras. I
cannot love him as I do Charles  how can
I ?  and he is very troublesome and vexes
me. Some boys are ten times more wearying
than others ; they must try the patience
of even their own mothers.'

Cyras teas troublesome ; one of those
boys who are never still  always in some
mischief or other. The Dean allowed that.

Grace, listen. I think the boy is made
worse than he would be ; he has hardly fair
play between you and Jaquet.'

I never allow Jaquet to be unjust to
him.'

'Is she ever anything but unjust to
him ? ' returned the Dean. ' Does she not
bring to you tales of him continually ?
making molehills into mountains, purposely
to set you against him ? My dear, I fancy
it is so.'

If I thought she did I would discharge
her to-day,' spoke Lady Grace, in haughty
impulse.

Not to-day ; it is Sunday,' laughed the
Dean.

I will watch,' said Lady Grace. ' But,
Eyle, you know you do indulge Cyras too

miicli; you have ever done so. You may
not be conscious of it. When a parent
inordinately indulges a child, I do not believe
he ever is conscious of it. And there
are boys and boys, you know. We may
indulge Charles as much as we please, it
would never hurt him ; but it is bad for a
self-willed boy like Cyras.'

Lady Grace was right. But no more
was said, for the steps of the boys were
heard on the stairs, and she opened the
door.

Come in, Cyras ; I want you,' she said,
drawing him gently to her. 'Your papa
has been telling me that it was not you who
hit Charles and made his nose bleed.'

'Of course it was not me  as if I
would ! ' said Cyras.

But why did you not tell me so ? '

It didn't matter,' said the boy.

It did matter. It caused me to punish

you, for I thought you deserved it. I am
sorry to have done so, Cyras, but the fault
was yours. You should have told me the
truth.'

Sometimes when you are angry with
me, mamma, and I tell you the truth, you
don't believe me. You believe Jaquet
instead of me. I don't get ftiir play in
this house with anybody except papa.'

The Dean glanced at his wife. This was
bearing out his own hints to her.

Jaquet hates me, mamma ; you know
she always did hate me.'

I hope not, Cyras. And I do not
think she would dare to say to me what was
not true.'

Oh, wouldn't she ! ' cried the bold boy.
Lie does it to get me into a row with you
and make you punish me. Didn't she tell
you it was me that made Charley's nose
bleed just now, and didn't you believe her

and hit me for it? It wasn't me, and
nobody had told her it was me ; but she
took and said it.'

Lady Grace, struck with the argument,
if not with its eloquence, paused in thought.

'It's her spite,' said Cyras. 'Charley
and Gerry might see it is, only they are
little duffers, and can't believe anything bad
of Jaquet. She pets them both up, and
gives them sugars ticks.'

Well, we will go to tea now, and you
shall take it in my room this evening, and
I'll pour it out for you,' said Lady Grace
briskly, kissing both the lads.

I have made my mind up, Eyle,' said
Lady Grace to her husband later. ' Jaquet
goes.'

And, to Jaquet's infinite astonishment,
she had her warning the next day. After a
few moments given to getting over her discomfiture,
she told her lady that at the end

of the month she had been intending to give
warning on her own side, for she was going
to ' alter her condition.'

Which meant that she was about to get
married. But when the name of the intended
bridegroom was disclosed, it provoked
some laughter from the Dean's household,
especially from his eldest son. For
the name was 

'Bones.'

CHAPTER Iii.

WITH SIR WILLIAM CHANT.

In the handsome drawing-room of their
town residence in Berkeley Square sat the
Dean of Denham and Lady Grace Baum-garden.
It was a fine evening in April ; the
dinner-hour was approaching, and they were
awaiting a guest : an old friend whom the
Dean had met in the street unexpectedly
that day and invited.

Years have elapsed, and the Dean,
approaching fifty now, is more portly than
he was wont to be ; but Lady Grace carries
her age well, and looks not a day older than
the period a woman never confesses to
having passed  five-ands thirty. But in the

Dean's face there is a look of anxious care :
what can the flourishing Dean of Denmark
have to trouble him f

A great deal more than the world at
large suspected. Gifted with an aristocratic
wife, and she with aristocratic tastes and
habits, the Dean had fallen long and long
ago into a more expensive rate of living than
his means permitted. Embarrassment followed
as a necessary consequence ; trifling
enough at first, and easily put ofi*  not done
away with, but deferred. But the plan does
not answer ; it is something like the nails in
the horseshoe, which doubled as they went
on ; and Dr. Baumgarten had now attained
to a height of perplexity in his pecuniary
affairs not frequently reached by a dignitary
of the Church.

Half the labour of his later life had been
to hide it from Lady Grace, and he had in a
great measure succeeded. She could not

avoid knowing that they where in debt, but
she had no conception to what extent, and
debt is rather a fashionable complaint. She
also found that the Dean invariably ran short
of ready money ; but that is not uncommon
either.

In one sense of the word, the debts
which had gathered about them might be
put down to the score of Lady Grace. At
the death of her mother, Lady Avon, she
had come in to all the property that would
be hers  two thousand a year. With that
and the Dean's income they might have
lived sufficiently well. But Lady Grace had
little idea of the value of money, and was
given to thinking that one pound would goas
far as four or five. Living in Berkeley
Square was her doing, and was quite wToug
and ridiculous with their narrowed means.

It had come about in this way. Two
years before the present chapter opens, Lady

VOL. I.

Grace had come to London on a visit to her
brother. Lord Avon had never married,
and spent much of his time abroad, keeping
his house  a small one  in Piccadilly done
up in brown holland and lavender. However,
he took possession of it for a season,
invited his sister to stay with him, and the
Dean, if he could come, A season in town
was perfectly delightful to Lady Grace.

I shall not be able to do without it now
that I have tasted its sweets again,' she said
to her brother one day. ' I think I must
look out for some furnished house to be had
cheaply, Henry, and take it.'

All right,' said his lordship, who had
given in to Grace from the time she was a
baby.

Lady Grace found a charming house in
Berkeley Square. ' Just the thing,' she
observed to her brother and to the Dean,
who was in town for a week. ' It is only a

little house, and may be had on almost one's
own terms : may be rented yearly, furnished ;
or wee may purchase the lease and the furniture
as it stands. Of course, the latter is
out of the question, but we might hire it.
It belonged to an old lady who is now
dead.'

We cannot possibly afford it,' whispered
the Dean aside to Lord Avon. ' Pray don't
encourage Grace to think of it.'

What's that you are saying, Eyle ? '
cried his wife. ' Not afford it ! Oh, but
we must ; we will afford it. I'll economise
in other matters.'

Lord Avon generously came to the
rescue. He purchased the lease, which had
twelve years to run, he bought the furniture,
and made a present of it to his sister.

So there was no rent to pay in Berkeley
Square, and this was the second year they
had been in it.

But the money went all too quickly in
other ways. What with the household they
kept up, the entertainments Lady Grace
liked to give, and the expenses of the
children, Dr. Baumgarten's income ought to
have been doubled.

Gertrude had her governess  a French
lady, who spoke and taught the three
languages equally well : French, English,
German. Mademoiselle Leon was a most
desirable individual, and a finished instructress
; but these exceptional governesses
have to be paid according to their
merits. Gertrude's masters were also expensive.


Charles was at Oxford ; and though not
especially extravagant, he did not live as a
hermit. Cyras ? What of Cyras ?

Cyras had given trouble. Was it likely
to be otherwise ? It had always been the
Dean's intention that Cyras should follow his

own calling, the Church. Cyras knew this,
but had not objected, although never intending
to fall in with it. Make a parson of him !
Dress him up in a black coat and a white
choker ! the youngster was wont to say
behind the Dean's back. No ! He'd rather
go in for the township at Ashley's ; rather bea
jockey at Newmarket ; rather hew timber
in the backwoods of America ; rather perch
himself on a three-legged stool at a dark
desk in a City office  yes, even that. None
of the fellows who went in for those things
need have a conscience, but a parson must
have one ; so he'd leave the Church to those
who liked consciences.

This treason was reported to the Dean,
and he ordered Cyras before him, and administered
a stern rebuke. But he could
make no impression upon him. Cyras argued
the matter out ; he was not insolent, but he
was persistent ; he had not grown less independently

reckless with his advancing years
reckless, that is to say, of other people's
opinions when they clashed with his own ;
though, in spite of the Dean's reproaches to
the contrary, the objection to enter the
Church proved Cyras not to be so totally
devoid of thought as his father assured
him he was. Cyrus was eighteen then,
and was to have gone to college in the
autumn.

It won't be of any use my going to
Oxford, papa,' the handsome young fellow
urged. ' To send me there would be waste
of time and money. I have quite as much
learning as I shall ever want. Make Charley
into a parson instead of me ; it won't go
against his conscience.'

You know, Cyras, that Charles has set
his heart upon the Bar.'

And a very good calling too,' rejoined
Cyras equably. ' You are in the Church

yourself, papa  one of its shining lights, you
know ; but that's no reason why you should
force a son into it.'

What is to become of you, Cyras ? '

Of me ?  oh, anything. What I wanted
was to have a commission bought for me in
the army, but '

I have explained to you that I could
not afford it,' interrupted the Dean with some
agitation, for it brought before him the
vexatious state of his finances. ' Would you
wish to remain a burden upon me, Cyras?
Do you expect me to keep you for ever ? '

Not a bit of it, father,' said Cyras
heartily. ' I'd rather make money myself,
and keep you.'

The Dean could hardly forbear a smile.

How would you make it ? ' he asked.

Oh, go out to the gold diggings and digit
up  something or other of that sort.'

Don't talk recklessly,' reproved the Dean.

As I could not have a commission
bought, I don't much care what I do,' Cyras
was beginning ; but Dr. Baumgarten laid his
hand upon his arm.

Cyras, I have told you the truth,' he
said, with emotion. 'I had not the purchase-money,
neither could I have made you the
necessary yearly allowance. My boy, you
little know how hard up I am, and how
claims press upon me daily. Sometimes
I think the trouble will be too much forme.'


'I'm sure / will not add to it,' cried
Cyras, in his good-natured, careless way. ' I
shall get along first-rate, father, you'll see.'

If you would only enter the Church,
Cyras, I could take care of your preferment ;
you'd be provided for for life. Don't bring up
that nonsense to me again about conscience.
I should be deeply grieved to think that a
son of mine could have aught of sin upon

his conscience to unfit him for entering upon
a sacred calling.'

Oh, it's not that,' said Cyras lightly. ' I
wouldn't mind taking orders tomorrow, buta
parson must lead so straitlaced a life  at
least, if he is what a parson ought to be  and
I couldn't do that, you know. I couldn't,
indeed, father. I should be turning Woman
Catholic, or something of that sort, to get
rid of my gown  Methodist parson, perhaps.'

The Dean sighed. It seemed a hopeless
case.

I will talk with you again, Cyras,' he
said ; ' but I do fear you are going to be
another source of trouble and expense tome.'


The opportunity for further talk did not
come. Cyras disappeared from home ; and
the next heard of him was that he was onboard
ship, sailing for New Zealand. His
letter to the Dean, despatched by the pilot

who had conveyed the ship down Channel,
was characteristic of him :

My dear Father,  Here I am, on board
the good ship Rising Star, a copper, A 1,
bound for Wellington. I know you think
me careless and indifferent, and all the rest
of it, but you may believe me when I say
that I V70uld not willingly bring trouble on
you for all the world. I know I shall get on
over there. They'll give me a place at once
in Brice's shipping house. I'm sure of that,
if I choose to take it  I've spoken to Brice
here, and he says so ; but I may, perhaps,
find my way to Melbourne instead, and try
my luck at the cornfields. I don't mean to
be any more expense at all to you ; I hope I
shan't be, and I've shipped as a common
sailor before the mast to work my way out,
rather than ask you for the passage-money.
I daresay you'd not have given it me if I had

asked ; you'd have forbidden me to go, and I
thought the safest way was to say nothing
about it. So I chiselled a young sailor fellow
out of his papers  he had broken his leg,
and must lie up for a year to come  and I
went down to the office, rigged out in a
glazed hat and pea-jacket, stood there as
bold as any sailor among them, and signed
articles for the Rising Star. She is fourteen
hundred tons burthen. I'll write again when
we reach Wellington ; or, if I don't like the
look of things out there, I'll come back in
the ship. And with best love to you, dear
papa, and to mamma, and Charley, and
Gertrude,

'I am, your affectionate Son,

Cyras.'

Cyras did not come back in the ship.
The Dean transmitted him some money to
Wellington, and Cyras sent it back again.

He sent with it a loving letter of thanks,
telling his father that he was getting enough
to keep him, and did not want money.
After that they heard from him at intervals,
from Australia or from JN'ew Zealand, as the
case might be. According to his own
account he was always flourishing, and he
once sent a lovely gold bracelet to Gertrude
and a twenty-pound note to Charley.

Three years had elapsed since his first
departure, and now Cyras was back again
not to remain, he told them ; only to see
them and the old country once more.
Charles  I think this has been said  was
keeping his terms at Oxford, and the Dean
and his wife were living in Berkeley Square.
Cyras seemed to have brought over plenty of
money. He had settled down as clerk in a
shipping house at Wellington  brice and
Jansen  and had six months' leave from
it. He was twenty-one now, and but little

changed  gay, rattling, reckless in speech as
of old ; but exceedingly handsome, exceedingly
like what the Dean had been before
him. Only in one point did he not resemble
his father, and that was in stature : the Dean
was tall and stately, Cyras was very little
above middle height, and very slight.

'And wdiat have you been doing with
yourself to-day, Cyras ? ' inquired the Dean
of his son, who was singing to himself in an
undertone as he stood at the window looking
out on the square. ' I wanted you this
morning, but you were not to be found.'

I went to ]N"orwood to see Aunt Charlotte,'
replied Cyras. ' She took me into the
Crystal Palace ; we lunched there.'

Oh, indeed ! How is she ? '

Flourishing,' said Cyras. ' She fired off
no end of questions at me about the Prices
of Wellington.'

'Naturally,' remarked the Dean. 'Her

husband and Brice of Wellington are
brothers.'

Are the Prices of Wellington nice
people, Cyras ? ' asked Lady Grace.

The nicest people going, mamma.'

And well off? '

'They just are. Why Brice and Jansen
is about the first shipping firm in Wellington.'


The reader may not have forgotten that
Charlotte Dane, sister to poor Edith, married
a Mr. George Brice, of London, with whom
she had become acquainted when he was
visiting his uncle, Brice the surgeon, at Great
Written. It was this Aunt Charlotte Cyras
had been to see. She lived in a handsome
house at Norwood, for they had become
very wealthy.

And whilst he was speaking Brice the
surgeon came in ; for he was the guest
expected. After greeting Lady Grace and

the Dean, lie turned to Cyras, holding him
before him by the lappets of his coat, gazing
intently into his face. He had not seen
Cyras for three years.

What a likeness !  what a likeness !
It is yourself over again,' he said to the
Dean. ' Just what your face was at his
age;

Dr. Baumgarten laughed. ' You did not
know me when I was his age, Brice  nor
for five or six years after it.'

'It is a wonderful likeness, is it not,
Lady Grace ? ' Event on the surgeon.

I have always said so,' she answered.

Gertrude entered ; a beautiful girl, with
the fair delicate skin and the proud blue
eyes of her mother. She was a pleasant
girl, not self-willed as Grace used to be, but
sweet and gentle.

'How is Lord Avons' asked the surgeon.


Quite well,' said Grace ; ' and in
London. He was on the Continent all last
year, but this year he is at home.'

As good-natured as ever, I expect.'

Just the same,' laughed Lady Grace.

They sat after dinner in the drawing-room
talking together until nine o'clock,
when Mr. Brice had to leave them. He
was engaged to a gathering at a noted
physician's house near Hanover Square : a
dozen or so of learned men, chiefly medical
men, were about to meet to discuss a discovery
of the day.

I wish you would accompany me,' said
the doctor to his host. ' You could not fail
to appreciate what you will hear, and I m
sure you will not repent the introduction
to Sir William Chant. He has hardly his
equal.'

I should like to go very well,' said Dr.
Baumgarten.

Any room for me ? ' spoke Cyras
quaintly.

To be sure assented Mr. Brice. ' Come
along.'

This visit need not have been recorded
but for a matter which grew out of it. They
spent a pleasant and profitable hour or two
at Sir William Chant's, the Dean especially
enjoying the society of Sir William himself,
to whom he took a great liking ; and they
came away soon after eleven o'clock. In
passing a side street they suddenly fell upon
a commotion ; wild shouts arose from the
mob, while Hames were pouring out of the
windows of one of the houses. Cyras made
for the scene at a gallop ; the surgeon ran ;
Dr. Baumgarten went after them. There
was much pushing in the street, everyone
wanting to get where he could best stare at
the windows. In the midst of it all an
engine, with its firemen, clashed and dashed

VOL. T. P

round the corner, scattering the people right
and left.

Cyras bethought himself that his father
and the old doctor might not be quite so
able to battle with a mob as he, and he
looked about for them. A minute's search
and he came upon his father on a doorstep.
The Dean had apparently sat down, and was
lying back as if he had no life in him.

 Father ! ' exclaimed Cyras. ' Father ! '

Looking closely, Cyras saw that the face
was very pale, and that a blue tinge seemed
to be drawn in a circlet round the mouth.
The Dean gasped once or twice and opened
his eyes.

Have you been hurt, father ? Are you
ill ? '

Dr. Baumgarten rose up, with the help
of Cyras. ' No,' said he ; ' no, I have not
been hurt. It is a fainting fit that I have
now and then  not often.'

A fainting fit ! ' repeated Cyras, wondering
what a tall, fine, strong man like the
Dean could have to do with fainting fits.

It's something of the sort. My breath
seems to leave me suddenly ; I have to fight
for it ; and then a faintness comes on,' added
the Dean, as he walked away upon the arm
of Cyras.

Cyras had picked up odds and ends of
notions on his travels. 'I suppose the
heart's all right, father ? ' he said.

Oh dear, yes,' replied Dr. Baumgarten.
What with Denham and Great Written and
private matters, I think I'm a little overworked.
Sometimes I feel as though I
wanted rest ; that's all, Cyras.'

I should take rest,' observed Cyras.

That's easier said than done, my boy.'

Look here, father ; put the Deanery
and the other places out to nurse for a few
months, and come over with me to New

p 2

Zealand when I go back again. It would set
you up for the rest of your life ; you'd come
back stronger than any parson in the Den-ham
diocese.'

Hush,' said the Dean, hastily withdrawing
his arm from that of Cyras. ' There's
Brice.'

Mr. Brice, having extricated himself
from the crowd, was standing at the end of
this quiet street looking out for them.

It's a bad fire,' he remarked unsuspiciously,
' but we can do no good, and are best
away from the fray. And now I'll wish you
good-night ; for my road lies that way, and
yours this.'

You are sure you will not be able to
come to us again in Berkeley Square ? ' said
the Dean, as their hands met and clasped.

Can't,' said Mr. Brice. ' I'm promised

tomorrow morning to George and Charlotte

Norwood, and I go down home in the

evening. It lias been a great thing, my getting
this little bit of a holiday. You'll remember
to deliver my messages to my
nephew and the rest, Cyras, when you get
back to Wellington ? '

I'll remember them, sir.'

'Father,' began Cyras, the following
morning, when, as chance had it, they were
alone for a few minutes after breakfast,
don't you think it might be as well if you
saw a doctor ? '

It was exactly what the Dean had been
thinking. But he did not acknowledge it.

Oh, I don't know,' he answered in a
careless tone.

'I should just have told old Brice right
out last night,' said Cyras.

One can't very well talk of things in the
street,' returned the Dean.

Dr. Baumgarten went out a little before

one o'clock on his way to Sir William
Chant's. He thought it a good time to catch
him ; he would probably have about got rid
of his morning patients. An idea had struck
him that he would rather tell his tale of
doubtful sickness to Sir William, a stranger,
than to a medical man who knew him better.
Such a fancy penetrates to many of us.

Sir William would be disengaged in a
few minutes, the servant said ; he was then
with his last patient. Dr. Baumgarten
handed the man his card  'The Dean of
Denham '  but desired that it should not be
given in until his master was alone.

I am very glad to see you, Mr. Dean ;
very pleased that you should have called
upon me,' was Sir William's warm greeting
when his stately visitor was ushered in.

What shall you say if I tell you that I
have come as a patient ? ' returned the Dean.

I hope not.'

Yes, it is so. That is  I have  have 
I have experienced a little annoyance once
or twice, which perhaps it may be as well
to speak of,' rapidly continued the Dean,
getting over his momentary hesitation. ' It
amounts to nothing, I daresay.'

You do not look as if much were amiss
with you, sir,' smiled Sir William. 'Will
you take this chair ? '

The chair he touched was the patient's
chair, facing the light. Sir William sat opposite
to it in the shade.

'Before I enter upon the matter. Sir
William,' said the Dean as he took the seat,
I must get you to make me a promise. It
is a very simple request, and I am sure that
you will deal openly with me. If you find
reason to suspect that there is anything radically
wrong will you candidly avow it tome
? '

I wonder what it is ? ' thought Sir

William. ' Something I am sure.  Do you
suspect any particular mischief yourself ? ' he
inquired.

Well, I suppose I ought to do so.'

The heart? ' queried Sir William.

'That, if anything. Possibly it may arise
only from my being somewhat overdone with
work and other matters. I have been attacked
at times rather curiously.'

Will you describe the attacks.'

There is not much to describe,' said the
Dean. ' A sudden stoppage of the heart,
accompanied by a strange inward fluttering,
which I feel to my fingers' ends ; and then a
faintness, almost, but not quite, amounting
to a fainting fit.'

Sir William Chant put another question
or two as to symptoms, and then passed onto
another phase.

'How frequently do you have these
attacks P '

Very seldom indeed. I've only had
about half-a-dozen in all. The first time
was after boating, when I was an undergraduate
at Oxford ; the last time was
yesterday evening ; and that covers a good
many years, you perceive.'

Yesterday evening ! ' repeated the doctor,
struck with the remark. 'Not when
you were here ? '

No ; afterwards. In going home we
got into a crowd collected at a fire. I ran,
and otherwise exerted myself, and the attack
came on.'

And sometimes, I expect, it has come
on from mental emotion? '

Yes ; more frequently so. What do
you make of it. Sir William ? '

Sir William Chant smiled, rose, and took
some instrument from a drawer in his table.
You must let me test your organs a little
before I can give you an answer.'

Beginning with the heart, I suppose ? '
observed the Dean, as he unbuttoned his
clerical coat and waistcoat.

Beginning with it and ending \vith it, I
fancy,' thought the physician ; but he did
not say so.

The examination, a slight one, was over.
The instrument was in its place again,
the clerical coat and waistcoat had been
refastened, and the gentlemen sat, each in his
chair, facing one another as before.

'Well?' said the Dean, for Sir William
did not speak.

Yes, undoubtedly the seat of mischief
lies in the heart. It is not quite as sound
as it ought to be.'

Am I in danger ? I must leg of you
to tell me the truth,' added the Dean, finding
he was not immediately answered.

My dear Mr. Dean, in one sense of the
word you are in danger ; all people must be

ill danger whose heart is in the condition of
yours ; but the extent of the peril depends
very much upon yourself.'

You mean that with tranquillity it maybe
reduced to a minimum ? '

'I do. With perfect tranquillity maintained
of mind and body, your heart may
serve you for years and years to come.'

I may not be able to command that.'

But you must do so. My dear sir, you
must I do not know which would be the
worse for you, worry of mind or undue
exertion of body.'

He would be a clever man who is able
to ensure himself a life exempt from worry,'
remarked the Dean.

I mean emotional worry  worry that
runs to agitation,' said Sir William. ' Of
small worries we all have enough and to
spare ; life is full of them. Even these I
would have you meet calmly.'

If I can.'

Some matters will not admit of an " if,"
Dr. Baumgarten  must not be allowed to do
so. Every individual has so much under
his control. And  I think I may understand
that with each attack you have had
you were able to trace it to some emotion or
other. Is that not so ? '

It is so.'

Well, then, what more need of arguments
Keep emotion from you, and you
will not have the attacks.'

'On the other hand  I think I am to
understand that should any undue agitation
arise, despite every precaution, to induce an
attack, it might be fatal ? My life may pass
away in it ? '

Yes. But you must not allow it to arise.'

With a few quiet words of thanks Dr.
Baumgarten arose ; he put his fingers into
his waistcoat pocket.

No, no, no ; no fee from you. Dr.
Baumgarten,' spoke the physician warmly.
You were my honoured guest last night ;
let me have the pleasure of regarding our
interview to-day as one of friendship. And
be sure to come to me whenever you want
advice of any kind.'

So be it. Sir William ; and I thank you
greatly,' answered the Dean, as their hands
met.

He walked slowly along the street on his
return to Berkeley Square, deep in thought,
unable to put away an impression which
had taken hold of him  that for him the
dread fiat had gone forth. It seemed assure
as though he heard the death-bell
tolling for him in his coffin.

CHAPTEE VIII.

AFTER THE Dinner-party.

Once more in the drawing-room at Berkeley
Square sat the Dean and Lady Grace. They
had entered the room at almost the same
moment, dressed to receive guests. The
Dean gave a dinner-party that evening, and
Lady Grace, as she sat at the window,
observed the first carriage, as she thought,
driving up to the door.

Four or five weeks have elapsed since
the Dean's interview with Sir William Chant,
and the sweet month of June is close at
hand. The Dean has been feeling well of
late  that is, he has not had any return of
his malady; but he is overwhelmed with

worry. Lady Grace has been extravagant
this season, and her husband knows not how
to defer any longer the embarrassments
which creditors are pressing upon him. He
has been staying at Great Written, and has
only now been in town a day or two.

An idea has lately been forcing itself
upon him which he does not like to entertain
; yet, unwelcome as it is, he begins to
fear he shall have to act upon it. It is that
he shall disclose his position to his brother-in-law
and obtain from him seasonable help.
It might take from four to five thousand
pounds to extricate him from his dilemma
and put him straight again ; probably quite
five. Then he would have to make all
known to Grace, and persuade her to live
in quiet retirement for a time at Great
Written, and pay back Lord Avon by
degrees. But Dr. Baumgarten does not like
to ask this loan of Lord Avon ; one or taro

loans he has had already from him. The
good-natured Earl has always been generous
to them ; apart from the Berkeley Square
house he often slips a ten-pound note into
his sister's hand, of which she makes no
secret to her husband, and for which she
hardly thanks Lord Avon. ' He has no
wife,' remarks Lady Grace ; ' why should he
not occasionally make me presents ? '

It was to be a formal dinner-party this
evening ; one given yearly by Dr. Baumgarten
to a few nearly superannuated lights of the
Church, who came in their mitred chariots,
with their old wives beside them. It was
not at all one delighted in by Lady Grace,
who called the worthy people ' ancient
fogies.' Neither Charles nor Gertrude, if at
home, would have been admitted to it.
Cyras would have been still more out of his
element than they. Cyras, who would soon
be on the wing again for a distant land, was

paying a farewell visit to Charles at Oxford
; Gertrude was spending the day with
their friends in Eaton Place  the .


That carriage has passed out of the
square ; I fancied it was coming here,' remarked
Lady Grace as she turned from the
window.

The Dean stood with his elbow leaning
on the mantelpiece, the hand supporting
his head. A strange weight of care
sat upon his brow ; so great, so strange,
that it did not escape the notice of his
wife.

Is anything the matter, Eyle ? You do
not look well.'

Well? Oh, yes ; I am quite well.'

You are troubled, then. What is it ? '

Nothing ; it is nothing, Grace. The
day has been very hot, and heat always
makes me feel languid, you know.'

VOL. I. Q

And the Dean removed this elbow,
smoothed his brow, and called up a smile,
just as the first black silk apron, worn by
the Bishop of Denham, came sailing in. In
point of fact, the Dean had cause to show
an uneasy front : a terrible blow had fallen
upon him  painfully perplexing tidings that
he knew not how to cope with.

But never had the Dean of Denham been
more courteous, more brilliant, more alive
to the duties of a host than he was that
evening. He sat at the head of his board,
after Lady Grace had withdrawn, and the
sociable old bishops admired his learning,
retorted to his wit, yielded to his fascinations,
and enjoyed his good wine. It was a
remark amongst their lordships the next day
that Baumgarten had surpassed himself.
The ladies thought the same when he appeared
with their lords in the drawing-room.
Gertrude Baumgarten was in it then, and

was singing to them some of her sweetest
songs, but they forgot the songs when they
listened to the Dean.

A servant was crossing the saloon with a
coffee-cup ; he halted for a moment near his
master, and spoke in a tone imperceptible to
other ears. It was Moore, who had lived so
long in the family ; a middle-aged man now
and quite a confidential servant.

Mr. Fuller is come again, sir ; and
another gentleman with him. I have shown
them into the library.'

Drawing towards the door, unconsciously
as it were, with a word to one, a smile for
another, the Dean presently passed out of it,
unnoticed, for they were engaged with their
coffee, and Gertrude was singing again. In
the library were two gentlemen, and farther
off, sitting on the edge of a handsome chair,
as if handsome chairs and himself did not
often come into contact with each other,

Q 2

was a shabby-looking man. The man had
been there for several hours, and had had
substantial refreshments served to him more
than once.

Mr. Fuller was the Dean's lawyer. The
gentleman he had now brought with him
was the Dean's banker, and the man was a
sheriff's officer. The Dean of Denham had
been arrested.

The Dean of Denham had been personally
arrested ! Such calamities have occurred
to divines even higher in the Church
than he. As he came up to his door that
afternoon, and put his foot upon his doorsill
to enter it, he was touched upon the
shoulder by the man sitting now in that
uneasy chair. The exclusive Dean shrank
from the contaminating contact, his haughty
pride rose, and he spoke severely:

Fellow, what are you doing ? '

The Eeverend Eyle Baumgarten, Dean

of Delian, I believe. Sir, you are my
prisoner.'

Staggered, shocked, almost bewildered,
he, by some process of persuasion or reasoning,
induced the man to enter his house, and
wait while he sent for his lawyer. The
lawyer came. Arrangement appeared to be
hopeless, for the Dean was worse than out
of funds, and of revenues to fall back upon
he had none. There was a consultation.
The Dean said, receive the bishops that
night, as had been decided, he must ; and an
awful sickness fell upon him at the prospect
of going to prison. Mr. Fuller threw out a
word of suggestion touching Lord Avon.
But Lord Avon, as the Dean knew", had
gone to Epsom races ; he might not be
home till midnight, if then. Mr. Fuller
knead the Dean to be a man of honour,
whose word was not to be questioned, and
he passed it, to go quietly to his destination

the following morning, provided he could
remain at liberty in his house for that night.

Mr. Fuller gave an undertaking to the
capturer, answering for the Dean's good
faith, and the man was made at home in
the library, Moore alone being cognisant of
his business. Meanwhile the Dean wrote
a note to his banker, of which Mr. Fuller
took charge.

The banker, wishing to be courteous,
answered it in person, and sat now at the
library table, the Dean on one side of him,
the lawyer on the other. But of what use
was his coming? He had been privately
saying to the lawyer that he and his house
were m for it too deeply as it was, and nota
shilling more would they advance ; no,
not to keep the Dean out of purgatory, let
alone out of prison. He intimated somewhat
of the same now to the Dean, though
in more courtly terms.

They consulted together in subdued
tones, not to be audible to the man at the
other end of the room, but to no earthly
effect ; it all came round to the same point :
the Dean had neither money nor money's
worth ; even the very furniture of the house
he was in was not his ; it had been settled
by Lord Avon on his sister, and the Dean's
debts could not touch it. The furniture at
the Deanery, the furniture at Great Written
Eectory was already mortgaged, as it maybe
said, for money which had been lent
upon it ; heavy liabilities were upon him,
and he had no means of meeting them  he
had put off and put off the evil day, only to
make it all the worse, now that it had come
to this.

I'll try to see Lord Avon in the
morning ; he'll be back by that time,'
remarked Mr. Fuller.

And only to find that he has gone off

to Paris by to-night's train,' said the Dean.
He talked of going over this week.'

Nothing coukl be done then ; nothing
whatever. The lawyer was unable to help,
the banker would not do so, and the conference
closed. Mr. Fuller promised to be
there again in the morning. Dr. Baum-garden,
upon thorns in more ways than one,
went back to his wondering bishops, the
comforting assurance that he must surrender
the next morning playing havoc with his
brain.

Oh, here's the Dean at last ! Lady
Grace feared you must be taken ill

Never in better health in my life,'
laughed the dean, gaily. ' I was summoned
to the library on business ; people
will come at troublesome times. Your
lordship is winning, I see  a knight and a
castle already; fair trophies, but Lady

Grace generally contrives to lose all before
her when she attempts chess.'

The priests departed at the sober hour of
eleven, and Lady Grace immediately prepared
to go to her dressing-room. The
Dean had been making up his mind to tell
her while he talked to the bishops. ' A
glib tongue covers an aching heart '  how
runs the proverb ? In all the world perhaps
there could not have been found that night
a more aching heart than Eyle Baumgarten's.
The time had come when his wife must
know, and the telling would be to him as a
very bitter pill.

'Grace, don't go up just yet. Goodnight,
Gertrude ; run on, my dear.'

Good-night, dear papa.'

Eyle ! ' uttered Lady Grace as the door
closed, ' you are not well. I am sure of it.
Something must be wrong. What weie you

doing when you were out of the room so
long' tc-nicrht ? '

The Dean leaned against the wall by the
side of the fireplace, all his assumed bravery
gone out of him. When the spirits have
been forced for hours, the revulsion is sometimes
terrible. She went up to him in
alarm and placed her hands upon him. He
took them in his own.

Yes, Grace, something is wrong. It
seems,' he added, with a ghastly face,
as if I should almost die in telling you
of it.'

Her lips turned whiter than his, and her
voice sank to a dread whisper. ' Something
has happened to Charles ? '

No, no ; the children are all safe ; it
has nothing to do with them. It has to do
with myself alone, and  with you  in a
degree  as part of myself.'

'Eyle, you are ill,' she faintly said

You have some disorder that you are concealing
from me. Why do you keep me in
suspense ? '

111 in mind, Grace. Oh, my wife, how
shall I tell you that I have been an embarrassed
man for years, and that now the blow
has fallen.'

She shivered inwardly, but would not
let it be seen. ' What is the blow ? '

I am arrested. I must go to prison tomorrow
mornings.'

So little was Lady Grace familiar with
arrests ' and ' prisons ' that she could not
at once comprehend him ; and when she did
so, the popular belief seemed to be in her
mind that a Dean, so enshrined in divinity
and dignity, could never be made an inmate
of a prison. The first emotion passed, they
sat down close together on the sofa, and
Grace poured forth question upon question.
What had brought it on ? How much did

they owe ? Why didn't he tell the lawyers
to settle it ?

Puzzling questions, all, for the Dean to
answer. It had been coming; on too loncj
for him to be able to trace ' what ' had
brought it on, except that they had lived at
too great an expense. Little by little, step
by step, the grain of sand had grown to a
desert. How much they owed he could not
precisely say ; and, oh ! the mockery of the
innocent remark : ' Why didn't he tell the
lawyers to settle it ? '

Eyle ! ' she suddenly exclaimed, ' you
had an advance from the bankers a day or
two ago. I saw you draw a cheque for two
hundred and twenty pounds  don't you remember
? I came in as you were writing it.
Is that all gone ? '

It was the last cheque they cashed  the
last they would cash. The money was not
for myself.'

For whom, then ? '

That is of no importance. It is gone.'

But you must tell me. You know,
Eyle, now that it has come to this pass, you
must not keep me in the dark. I must
know how much you owe, and how the
money has gone, and the right and the
wrong of everything. Of course, there's
nothing to be done now but to get Henry to
help us ; and if he won't, or can't do so, we
must raise money upon my property. What
did that two hundred and twenty pounds go
in?'

Arrests seem to be running in the
family just now,' observed the Dean with a
bitter smile. 'Cyras  Cyras  well, I had
to give that cheque to Cyras to get rid of a
little trouble. It was not much, Grace ; asa
drop of water to the ocean.'

Whether as a drop, or a bucket, it
seemed to freeze Lady Grace. ' Cyras ! '

she ejaculated scornfully. ' What right have
you to help him when you cannot afford todo
it ? I shall tell Cyras what I think of
his despicable conduct.'

Don't do that, Grace. The trouble was
not Cyras's. He has not had a shilling
from me.'

You have just said he had that cheque.'

Yes  to extricate another.'

Another ? ' echoed Lady Grace, looking
at him. ' It was not  oh, Eyle ! it surely
was not Charles ? '

Yes it was,' said the Dean, in a low, sad
tone. ' He got into debt, and Cyras took
my cheque to Oxford to release him. No
one can be more repentant than Charles is ;
I do not think it will ever happen again. It
was not his fault ; he was drawn into it by
others. I had the nicest possible letter from
him this morning ; he says it will be a life's
lesson to him. I believe it will. There 

let us leave Charles's affairs for mine.
Grace, this blow will kill me.'

If you went to prison it would be quite
enough to kill you ; but that cannot bethought
of. As a last resource, money, I
say, must be raised on my property.'

'My dear, I thought you knew better
than that. It is yours for your life only,
and then it descends to your children.
The Lord Chancellor himself could not raise
a shilling upon it.'

Lady Grace started up. ' Is it so ?
Then what in the world is to be done ? '

He did not say what  he foresaw too
well, and his countenance betrayed it. She
put her arm round his neck.

No, Eyle, dearest, you never shall ;
there shall be no prison for you whilst I live.
I will be back in an hour.'

Why, where are you going ? ' he exclaimed.


To my brother. A cab will take me
there in safety. He must manage this.
Now, don't attempt to stop me, Eyle ; what
harm could I come to ? If you are afraid it
might do so, come with me.'

I wish I could. I am a prisoner.'

A prisoner ! ' she ejaculated. ' Herein
your own house ? '

I may not quit it, except to exchange it
for a prison. But, my dear, listen to reason.
You are not likely to find your brother at
this hour of the night; perhaps he is not
even back from the races. Fuller will see
after him in the morning.'

I shall go and find him now,' she
persisted.

She had a bonnet and shawl brought
down, and a man-servant was ordered to
attend her: not Moore, who could not be
spared from home. For once in her life
Lady Grace condescended a word of explanation.

' She had business with Lord Avon,
and the Dean felt too unwell to accompany
her.' She remembered one important item
of information she was ignorant of, and went
back to ask it.

Eyle, how much are you arrested for ? *
The sum that I am arrested for is about
four hundred pounds. But now that this
crisis has come, I shall not escape without
making arrangements to pay all I owe,'
added the Dean.

And how much is it in the whole ? '
Close upon five thousand pounds.'
Grace looked at him ; he was sitting back
in the large chair almost, as it seemed to
her, gasping for breath. She saw how much
the confession had shaken him. Running
across the room, she kissed him fondly.

Don't distress yourself, my husband.
Henry will see that all comes right. I'll
make him do so.'

VOL. T. E

The man who had been bidden to attend
her stood at the cab-door, holding it open.
As Lady Grace took her seat the thought
crossed her that she would not take the
man  servants find out things so quickly.

Eichard, I think I shall not want you
she said. ' I will go alone. Tell the man
where to drive to  Lord Avon's.'

So Lady Grace went alone to the Earl's
residence in Piccadilly. He was not at home.
His valet thought he might be at the club ;
he had heard his lordship talking with a
friend about dining there when they got
back from Epsom.

Away to the club went Iady Grace.
The hall-porter, who was airing himself on
the steps, watched the cab stop, saw a lady
looking out of it, and condescended to go
down to it and see what she wanted.

Yes, the Earl was there, he and some
other noblemen had been dining together.

Lady Grace sent a message, wliicli the porter
took in and delivered.

A lady in a cab was waiting to see his
lordship. She wished him to come to her
immediately.

A titter went round the table, and the
Earl exploded a little at the porter. ' What
the deuce? A lady to see him? What
next ? Who was she ? '

The porter could not say anything about
her except that she was in a cab.

'What's her name?' returned the Earl.
Impudence ! Go and ask.'

The man went and came back again,
interrupting the chaff which was then in full
swing round the table. It dropped to silence,
awaiting the announcement.

It is Lady Grace Baumgarten, my
lord.'

Lord Avon gave a prolonged stare, and
then hurried out. A youngster at the table

11 2

began to take liberties with Lady Grace's
name.

Hold your silly tongue, you young fool,'
reprimanded an older man. ' Don't you know
that the Lady Grace is his sister and the wife
of the Dean of Denham ? '

Oh ! ' said the young fellow, feeling
that he should like to sink into his shoes.

Why, Grace, what's up now ? ' cried
Lord Avon, as he approached the cab. ' Is
Berkeley Square on fire ? Or is Baumgarten
made Primate of All England ? '

'Come inside, Henry, for a minute; I
want to speak to you. The Dean's arrested
for five thousand pounds.'

Oh, is he ? ' equably returned Lord
Avon. ' He has been a clever fellow to keep
out of it so long. No one but a dean could
have done it.'

And you must find the money to release
him.'

Anything else ? ' inquired Lord Avon.

You will find it, Henry ; you must

Look here, Grace,' said the Earl,
thousands are not so plentiful with me ; but
if they were, and I went to the spunging-house
to-night, and paid the money down,
there'd be the same to do over and over
again tomorrow.'

'No, there would not  but there's no
time to explain. Went to where, did you
say?'

Where's he taken to ? '

He is at home. They have gone out of
their usual way, he said, and allowed him to
be at home to-night : a man is there, and
will take him away in the morning. Henry,
it must not be ; you must come to his
aid.'

What I can do will not be of much
use, I fear. I know more of Baumgarten's
affairs than you do ; in fact I have already

helped him out of one or two pits ; though
of course thugs have been kept from you.'

'Whilst I have been the culprit I expect.
It is my extravagance that has brought this
about, not his. Only fancy, Henry! We
had a lot of the old bishops to dinner tonight,
and Eyle sat at the table just as usual,
knowing he was virtually a prisoner, whilst
the wicked man, his capturer, was waiting
for him in the library ! '

A fine state of things ! '

'You must help him out of it. The
Dean of Denham can't go to prison ; such a
scandal never was heard of. Henry, I won't
stir from your side, this night, till you give
me the money.'

Where am I to get it from ? ' quietly
asked the Earl. ' The birds of the air ? '

Nonsense. You possess a cheque-book,
I suppose ? '

I don't carry it about with me. All

this comes of marrying a parson. In posh -
tion, Bamngarten was beneath you '

Hold your tongue,' interrupted Lady
Grace. ' He is an honour to the family ;
and I know, if he has lived beyond his
means, it has been for my sake. Will you
go home with me now and talk things over
with him ? '

No,' said the Earl ; ' I can't to-night.
What with the day's racing, and the dinner
after it, I'm tired to death : fit for nothing.
I'll be in Berkeley Square the first thing in
the morning and see what can be done.' .

 What time ? By nine o'clock ? Even
that may be too late.'

I'll be there by eight.'

You won't fail me, Henry ? ' she said, in
an imploring tone.

I will not fail you, Grace. And I'll
get Baumgarten out of the mess if I can, for
I like him. Good-night ! '

Lady Grace returned home. She was
entering the drawing-room, when the butler,
Moore, came suddenly out of it to meet her,
and in a very unbutlerlike way closed the
door in her face to prevent her entrance. His
usually florid complexion had turned yellow,
and he spoke in a flurry, as if not weighing
his words.

Oh, my lady  not in there, please.'

Lady Grace wondered if Moore had
been visiting the decanters. ' Open the
door,' she calmly said. ' Is the Dean there
still?'

But Moore held the handle firmly. 'I
beg your pardon, my lady, you must not go
in.'

She was alarmed now : she saw the
man's agitation. ' My lady, the Dean is
taken ill,' continued Moore, ' that's the
truth. I thought your ladyship had best not
see him.'

She waved him aside in her wilful manner
: he would have had to give way. But
at that moment the door was opened from
within and Cyras came out. He had just
got back from Oxford, and it was his arrival
which had brought about the discovery that
something was amiss With the Dean.

I am going for a doctor, mamma,' said
Cyras, and leaped away. Lady Grace went
in, and Moore followed her.

Leaning back in a low easy-chair, almost
at full length, his head resting on the back
of it, lay the Dean. His face was white, his
mouth was open, but his eyes were closed,
as if in a calm sleep. Nevertheless, there
was that in his face which struck terror to
the heart of his wife. She touched the faithful
old servant on the arm and cried aloud.

Yes, my lady,' he whispered, believing
that she saw as well as he : 'I fear it is
death.'

Lady Grace knelt down and clasped her
hands round her husband. In that moment
of distress, what cared she who was present?
She called hmi by endearing names, she
kissed his face, she besought him to speak to
her. But there was no answering response,
and conviction told her that there never
would be again.

Never in this world. Cyras came back
with a doctor ; curiously enough, it was
Sir William Chant. Sir William had
been quietly walking home from a wdiist-
party at a friend's house when Cyras met
him.

A small mercy this, for Sir William was
able to testify to the cause of death, thereby
avoiding an inquest.

The Dean had died from disease of the
heart, brought on by the evening's excitement.
And the world, next day, was busy
with the news that the Very Eeverend Eyle

Baumgarten had been gathered to his
fathers, and that the rich Deanery of
Denham, richer in those days than in these,
was in the clerical market.

CHAPTER IX.

MISS DYNEVOR AND THE GIRLS.

It was not an ordinary match ; it was something
quite out of the common Away ; but
Mary Dynevor was a girl out of the common
way also. Not, however, as regarded
beauty : in that respect she could not compete
with her sister, Grace, or with lier
brilliant friend, Gertrude Baumgarten. She
was a ladylike girl, with a pale serene face,
very much like that of her sister, Camilla,
whose love had been blighted ; her hair was
of a rich brown, her eyes were violet blue ;
she was quiet in manner and calm in
speech. That was the best that could be
said of her, and yet it was certain that some

unusual charm did attach itself to Mary
D'iievor.

In the past year, when abroad with
Lady Grace Baumgarten, Mary had made
the acquaintance of Everard Wilmot, an
attache to one of the Continental embassies,
and the son of Sir John Wilmot. Exceedingly
to her own surprise he had asked her
to become his wife. In the impulse of the
moment she went, letter in hand  for he
had made the offer in writing  to Lady
Grace.

What am I to do ? ' she asked.

What a fortunate girl you are ! ' exclaimed
Lady Grace, when she had digested
its contents. ' He is the eldest son, you
know, and old Sir John's worth twenty
thousand a year, if he's worth a shilling.
What news for your father ! '

'Then you think that  I  should  accept
him ? ' repeated Mary Dynevor.

Accept him ! ' retorted Lady Grace ;
why, what else would you do ? '

I don't know. I don't particularly
care for him.'

What a strange girl you are ! You do
not like anyone else, I conclude ? '

Oh dear, no,' returned May ; ' what
an idea ! ' But the idea had served to bring
up the deepest and most confusing blushes
to her face. They looked a little suggestive
to Lady Grace Baumgarten.

'But  before accepting an offer of this
kind, I thought it was necessary  or usual

to  to ' Mary broke down.

 Lady Grace burst into a merry laugh.
You thought it was necessary first of all to
fall in love. I see. Well, it is sometimes
done, Mary ; but it is not absolutely essential.
My opinion was that something
was impending, for Everard has been here
much.'

But I never imagined he came forme.'


Oh, indeed ! ' said Lady Grace, not
choosing to say that she herself had never
imagined it either. ' For whom, then, did
you think he came ? '

Another accession of colour, and a
slightly evasive tone. ' Not for anyone  of
course ; I had no definite thoughts upon the
subject.'

One word, Mary. Do you dislike Mr.
Wilmot ? '

I like him very much ; and I esteem
him. greatly.'

And yet you come to me, and demurely
say, " What am I to do ? " Go away with
you, you shy, foolish girl.'

So Mary accepted Mr. Wilmot. Nevertheless,
she felt half conscious that if she had
had the courage to search out the hidden
secrets of her heart, it might have told

her that her love was given to Charles
Baumgarten.

Some few years had elapsed since the
sudden death of the Dean of Denham. It
was a terrible shock, that, to his wife and
children. His affairs were arranged by the
help of Lord Avon ; Cyras and Charles both
doing also something towards it. A small
sum of money, left to the boys by a relative,
but of which the Dean had enjoyed the interest
for his life, they had at once sacrificed.
Cyras had returned to New Zealand.
He was still in the same shipping house
there, Brice and Jansen's, and held a good
position in it now. He had not visited
England a second time, but wrote occasionally.
Sometimes his letters would contain a
pretty-looking little cheque for Charles or
for Gertrude.

Charles lead done well at Oxford ; had
taken honours and gained his fellowship.

He was called to the Bar, and lived at his
chambers in Pump Court for economy's
sake ; now and then staying for a few days
with his mother in Berkeley Square, Lady
Grace's residence. Her income was small.
She had only two thousand a year of her own,
which would go to Charles and Gertrude in
equal shares at her death ; but Lord Avon
considerably augmented it. He had been a
good brother to her. Charles hoped to get
on. well in his profession in time, and had
taken to go circuit ; this would be his
second year of it.

It was February by the calendar.
Judging by the wind, one might have called
it March, for dust whirled in the streets
and windows rattled. But Miss Dynevor's
drawing-room in Eaton Place was cheerful
with its fire and wax-lights. Dr. Dynevor
was rather in the habit of calling it 'My
town house ' when speaking of it, but it was

VOL. I. S

his sister's and not his. His name was
really Maude-Dynevor, though he was
rarely called by it. Some people dropped
the one name and some dropped the other.
His wife's family name was Maude, and
when he married her he had had to take it
in addition to his own.

When Dr. Baumgarten was made Dean
of Denham, Dr. Maude-Dynevor was one of
the prebendaries of the same cathedral. The
word ' prebend,' or ' prebendary,' was then
almost universally used for the higher cathedral
dignitaries ; ' canon ' rarely. Two or
three years later Dr. Dynevor was made
prebendary of Oldchurch, and quitted Den-ham.
He was at Oldchurch still, its sudden.
He had a large family of boys and
girls, and ruled them with an iron hand. He
was a dark, stern, ugly man, who walked
with his head thrown back in haughty
pomposity and his perky nose turned up to

the air. Caroline, his second daughter, had
married a man very much older than herself,
Colonel Sir Thomas Hume, and was in India ;
but the Doctor had four daughters on his
hands still. The eldest of them, Camilla,
rarely came to town.

Perhaps, though, it may be said that
they were on Miss Dynevor's hands rather
than on his. She had all the trouble of
them. Since Mrs. Maude-Dyne vor's death
some years back, his sister had taken much
charge of them. Occasionally she was
with them at Oldchm-ch, more frequently
they were with her in London. The girls
were not at all grateful. Ann Esther
Dynevor was rather eccentric and wore a
flaxen wig, and her nieces took advantage
of her peculiarities to tease her. She
was a rich woman and very generous to
them.

When Lady Grace Baumgarten returned

from her visit to the Continent in the past
October, and resigned his daughter Mary
into Dr. Dynevor's charge  he had travelled
from Oldchurch to Eaton Place to receive
her  and laid before him Mr. Wilmot's
very handsome proposals, the Sub-dean was
intensely gratified, and expressed obligation
and satisfaction to Lady Grace. Mary and
her sisters, Eegina and Grace, had remained
that winter with their aunt. With February
changes had come. Sir John Wilmot was
dead, Sir Everard was on his road home,
and Doctor Dynevor came up from Old-church
and was in Eaton Place. According
to the Sub-dean's computation, Wilmot
might be in London now. He was anxious
to see his future son-in-law. In his private
opinion he set him down as a milksop.
Who else, with a title and good rent-roll,
would have been attracted by Mary, a quiet,
pale girl with nothing in her ? The Canon

was not complimentary to his daughters,
either in public or private, and was given to
underrate their merits.

Dinner was over, and all were in the
drawing-room except the Sub-dean. He
was fond of his port-wine, and did not quit
the table with the young and frivolous. On
one of the large old-fashioned sofas sat
Miss Dynevor in her flaxen wig ; her head
had drooped on to the sofa pillow, and she
was fast asleep. On another sofa sat the
three girls in a half-circle ; and perched on
one of its arms was their brother Eichard ;
on the other arm sat the young man who
had dined with them.

This was Charles Baumgarten. Nearly
six-and-twenty years of age, not very tall,
but stately and handsome, he was the very
image of what his father had been as a
young man ; not resembling his sister Gertrude,
not resembling his mother. Lady

Grace; only his dead father. Eichard
Dynevor was little and insignificant.

The Sub-dean's sons were the plague of
his life. Not that they were worse than
other sons, but there were several of them
to get on in life, and the Dean was poor ;
and to supply their wants was often an inconvenience
to him. Eichard was studying
for the Bar, but was not yet called to it.
He had wanted to go into the Church ; but
the Sub-dean had two sons in it, or going
into it, and would not put in a third.

Isn't it a shame ! ' suddenly exclaimed
Eegina Dynevor in the subdued tone they
had adopted for their conversation. 'She
says her limbs are getting bad again, and
that she can't chaperon us tomorrow
night ! '

Eegina I ' interposed Grace in a tone
of sharp reproof, although Eegina was the
eldest and she was the youngest.

'I declare that she said it,' returned
Eegina, the whole party having imperceptibly
glanced at the opposite sofa, so that
there could be no mistaking who was alluded
to. ' We were in her dressing-room, just
before dinner. " My limbs are getting bad
again : " those were the very words she
used.'

Very possibly, but there was no necessity
for you to repeat them. We are not
alone.'

We are,' said Eegina. ' Who's Charley
Baumgarten? Nobody.'

Nobody, as you say,' interposed
Charles.

Eegina's tongue will be the bane of her
life,' cried Grace. ' Of course we are used
to Charley, but it would have been all the
.same had there been a roomful of strangers
present. She says anything that comes
uppermost in her mind.'

Like papa,' carelessly spoke Eegina.

Yes ; but what is proper for papa is
unladylike for you,' returned Grace, who
liked to set the world to rights.

Go on, Gracie,' laughed Eichard ; ' keep
them in order. What else did Aunt Ann
say?'

Nothing. I hope it's not true, though,
that she is going to be ill. We shall all be
kept prisoners, as we were last season.'

I'd rather run away than put up with
it,' protested Eegina fiercely. ' It's not
rheumatism but temper from which she is
suffering.'

Charles Baumgarten laughed.

It is quite true, Charley ; even you
don't know lier yet. I protest that it was
half and half last year  a little rheumatism
and a great deal of cross-grained fractiousness.
If she does have this attack, mind, I
shall have brought it on.'

You ! What next, Eegina ? '

Little Archdeacon Duck called this

mornmg-

Archdeacon Duck  who is he ? ' interrupted
Charles Baumgarten.

It's the girls' name for him ; she means
Archdeacon Drake,' explained Ei chard.
Let her go on, Charley.'

Well,' said Eegina, ' you all know how
Aunt Ann has been setting her cap at him,
thinking, perhaps, he might convert her
into Mrs. Duck the second. The little Archdeacon
was beginning with his foolishly
complimentary speeches  it's my belief he
learns them by heart, and says them to
every woman he meets  and brought in
something about aunt's " locks, of which
the weather, windy or wet, never disturbed
the beauty." " Or if it does,"
I put in, " Aunt Ann Esther can send
them to the hairdresser to be renewed ;

she is more fortunate than we poor young
damsels." '

 Eegina ! you never said it ! '

Indeed I did. She looked daggers, and
the Archdeacon looked foolish. There's
nothing she hates so much either as being
called Ann Esther. I was determined to
pay her off,' avowed Eegina ; ' she had
driven me wild all the morning with her
aggravations. And now I expect she intends
to pay us off by having an attack of
rheumatism.'

A blessed thing for you girls if you
were married and away,' said Eichard cynically
; ' but you'll never find another Aunt
Ann. I don't know where I should be for
pocket-money without her. I say, girls, I
think Wilmot has landed.'

Then, if so, he'll be here to-night,' said
Eegina. 'And Mary is as cool over it asa
cucumber ! One would think '

The Sub-dean entered. Eegina cut short
her speech, and Charles Baumgarten slipped
off his perch on the sofa and took his seat
decently in a chair. In the presence of Dr.
Dynevor his family put on their best behaviour.
He walked up to the fire, and stood
with his back to it, his shoe buckles glittering
in the wax-lights. A dead silence had fallen
in the room ; Miss Dynevor dozed on, and
in the midst of it the arrival of a visitor was
heard.

Whether they felt who it might be cannot
be told ; the silence of expectation was
on all, and their eyes turned to the door as
it was thrown open.

Sir Everard Wilmot.'

Dr. Dynevor and his buckles bustled
forward with his right hand stretched out.
He had pictured to himself a foolish young
man, with an incipient moustache and an
eyeglass ; he saw before him a right noble-looking

form, with a noble face, a man who
had left thirty years behind him. Miss
Dynevor tumbled upright in consternation,
and pushed up her flaxen curls too high in
her flurry.

A warm greeting to the Sub-dean, a
quiet greeting to Mary, holding her hand
for a moment only, an introduction to
the rest of the party, including Charles
Baumgarteu, and then Sir Everard sat
down.

'Look at Mary,' whispered Eichard to
his sister Eegina. ' Is she fainting ? '

Eegina started up and turned to her.
Mary's whole frame was shivering, and her
face had turned of a deathlike whiteness.
But she was not fainting.

It will be over in a moment,' she murmured
to Eegina. ' Don't notice me, for the
love of Heaven ! Talk to them  do anything
 stand before me  draw attention

from me And soon the colour came into
her face again.

Catch me turning sick and faint for the
dearest lover that ever stepped ! ' thought
Eegina, as she began clattering the teacups
on the table, sharply inquired how her aunt's
legs felt now, and pushed Charles Baum-garden
towards the bell-rope, telling him to
ring for the urn ; all with the good intention
of keeping observation from Mary.

Perhaps you would prefer coffee. Sir
Everard?'

He smiled. ' I should prefer tea. I
long to fall into the good old English customs
again. A traveller on the sandy desert
never longed for the sight of water more than
I have these many months longed for home.'

Then why didn't you come to it ? '
sensibly questioned Eegina.

First of all, I could not be spared, and
was forced to remain at my post,' replied

Sir Everard. ' Secondly, my father was
with me, and he believed England would
not be the proper climate for his declining
health. We all have to bow to circumstances,
you know, Miss Dynevor/

'Very disagreeable circumstances too,
sometimes,' returned the young lady. ' But,
Sir Everard, I am not Miss Dynevor, and
you will incur my aunt's everlasting displeasure
if you accord me the honour of the
title. She is Miss Dynevor  at present 
and I am Miss Eegina.'

There was a shade of malice and so
much point in Eegina's last sentence that
some of them smothered a titter. Sir Everard
turned to Miss Dynevor, and entered
into conversation with her with marked
courtesy.

Dear Aunt Ann is a great sufferer,'
cried Eegina. ' She has rheumatism in her
legs.'

A pity but that you had it in your
tongue returned Miss Dynevor, provoked
into a retort ; and Dr. Dynevor wheeled
round and stared in anger at his daughter
Eegina.

'So you are getting tired of a Continental
life,' he observed to Sir Everard.
I never was abroad ; don't know what it is
like over there.'

We get tired in time of all things but
home, sir. I hope never to go abroad again
except for a temporary sojourn.'

Mary came home enraptured with
Germany,' exclaimed Grace Dynevor. 'To
hear her account of it, we thought she
could only have alighted in some terrestrial
paradise.'

Sir Everard glanced at Mary and half
smiled. A sudden flush suffused her whiteface,
and she looked terribly embarrassed.

After tea they dispersed about the two

rooms, which opened to each other. One of
the girls sat down to the piano, the others
gathered round it, leaving the Sub-dean and
Sir Everard alone, standing on the hearth-rug.


My daughters delight in having a little
fling at their aunt, especially Eegina,' he
began confidentially, as if he deemed their
behaviour needed an apology. ' Ann keeps
them rather strictly, and they rebel against
it. Eichard, too, and Charley Baumgarten
help to keep up the ball against her, I
fancy.'

He is the son of Lady Grace, I presume
? '

Her son, and her idol.'

He is a fine young man  has a particularly
nice countenance.'

I don't know that countenances go for
much,' remarked the reverend Doctor.
Charles has something in him, and is steady

as old Time. He did well at college, and
gained his fellowship.'

Does he follow a profession ? ' inquired
Sir Everard. ' Lady Grace used to talk tome
about him, but I really have forgotten
details.'

I don't know how he would expect to get
on in the world without a profession. Dean
Baumgarten died worse than poor, as you
may have heard. Charles is called to the
Bar, and is already getting into some
practice.'

There's an elder son, is there not ? '

Of the Dean's, yes ; not of Lady
Grace's. The Dean was married twice.
Cyras lives at Wellington, in New Zealand ;
he has not been in England for years.'

Cyras ! ' exclaimed Sir Everard with
emphasis. ' Is that his name ? And he
lives, you say, at Wellington ? Is he in a
shipping-house there  Brice and Jansen's ? '

VOL. I. T

I believe that is the firm,' replied the
Sub-dean haughtily, who would have thought
it beneath him to know well the name of
anyone in trade.

Then I must have made a passing
acquaintance with him when I was at
Wellington two or three years ago,' remarked
Sir Everard. ' But I thought his
name was Brice. I am sure he called Mr.
Brice " uncle." '

Not unlikely ; they are connected in
some way. But his name is Cyras Baum-garden.'


Sir Everard strolled towards the other
room. Mary sat on a sofa, apparently lost
in thought, and Charles Baumgarten stood
underneath the chandelier, with an open
book. Sir Everard sat down by Mary.

It has been a long separation, Mary,'
he whispered. ' Did you think I was never

Yes, it has been long,' she faintly said.
Her hands were trembling, her heart was
beating; she spoke  and looked  as if she
were frightened.

But from no fault of mine,' he returned.
Had you permitted a regular correspondence
you would have known this.'

My aunt said it was more proper not to
correspond  except by an occasional letter
at stated seasons. I explained this to you
after I returned.'

A smile passed across Sir Everard's face.
I am aware  I remember ; and I daresay
it has all been very " proper " if not affectionate.
But the past is over and gone,
Mary, and now we need fear no further '

He did not say what. A hasty glance
had shown him that no one was looking.
Charles Baumgarten, buried in his book,
stood with his back towards them ; the rest
were round the piano, singing. He bent his

face down to Mary's and his lips touched her
cheek.

Oh, don't ! don't ! ' she shrinkingly
uttered.

Nay, my dearest, would you deny it tome?
It is a reward long waited for.'

She gasped for breath as she stood up
and caught the corner of the mantelpiece.
Her face had turned painfully white again.

The song over, the conversation became
general, and presently Sir Everard rose to
leave.

Will you tell Lady Grace, with my
kind regards, that I anticipate the pleasure
of seeing her tomorrow ? ' said Sir Everard
to Charles, as he held out his hand.

Charles did not choose to see the hand,
and he replied, coldly and stiffly, ' I do not
reside with Lady Grace, and shall not be
likely to meet her to-night or tomorrow.'

He has his mother's pride,' thought

Sir Everard. But Sir Everard was mistaken.


Mary slipped out of the room afterwards,
and she had not returned to it when Charles
said good-night.

As he passed a small parlour on his way
out, usually devoted to the studies and
pursuits of the young ladies, Charles's ear
caught the sound of something very like a
sob. He halted and looked in. There
were no candles in the room, but the fire
was blazing away, and in its light stood
Mary. He went in and shut the door
behind him. She smoothed the traces of
tears from her face, but could not hide its
ghastly look. Charles turned white also,
and confronted her upon the old, worn
hearthrug.

'The time for concealment has passed,
Mary, as it seems to me,' he began. ' We
have gone on, like two children, making

believe to hide things from one another.
This is the awaking ! What is to be done ?
You cannot enact a he, and marry that
man ! '

Oh, Charles ! what are you saying ? '
she uttered, in a wailing tone.

He stood quite still for a moment,
looking at her. ' Do you wish to marry
him ? '

I Avould rather die.'

Yes, for you love me  nay, don't I tell
you the time for concealment is over, and
this night is the awaking. You love me 
and oh, my darling ! how I love you I
cannot stay now to tell. Nor need I ; for
you have known it without my telling you.'

I am terrified,' she whispered. ' I am
nearly terrified to death at the thought of
what is before me. Think of the WTono- I
have done to him ! '

'And I think of my position  my

poverty,' returned Charles Baumgarten. ' If
I spoke to your father he would turn me out
of the house and keep me out of it. We
have just gone on living in a fool's paradise,
Mary, shutting our eyes to the future, I
shutting mine to honour.'

'Not a word must be breathed to my
father,' she Whispered eagerly.

'Would you marry Everard Wilmot?'
sharply cried Charles Baumgarten. 'But
that I forced control upon myself with an
iron will, I should have struck him when he
kissed you to-night.'

She cried out with pain. ' You saw it,
then?'

Saw it ! I felt it. Felt it as if it had
been a sharp steel piercing my heart. Oh,
the curse of poverty ! I seem to be helpless
in the matter. Mary, I can only trust in
you.'

A dim idea came over me, while I sat

with him on the sofa, of speaking to him,'
she said, in a tone of abstraction. 'But I
don't know how I could do it. He is so
good a man, so honourable, so kindly ; one
of those men you may trust. I wish he had
never taken it in his head to ask me to
marry him ! I wish I had followed my
own impulse at the time and declined
him.'

Why did you not do so ? ' he returned.

I had not the courage, and I  did not
care for you so much then as I do now,' she
whispered.

We have nearly our whole lives before
us, Mary, and they must not be sacrificed to
misery,' he urged. 'Mary, you must wait
for me ; I know I shall get on.'

Leave me to think it over for to-night,'
she answered. ' I must try and see what
ouo'ht to be done  and do it.'

That will not do,' he impetuously said.

If you put it upon " duty " and that sort of
thing, you will marry him.'

Charles ! ' It was her turn to reprove
now. ' I said I would try and see what I
ought to do, meaning my duty, neither more
nor less. It is not my duty to marry where
I do not love.'

Mary, I beg your pardon. All this has
driven me half out of my mind.'

Leave me now,' she repeated. ' Indeed,
I tremble lest any of them should come and
find you here. Good-night.'

He put his arm round her to kiss hers
but she started away. ' Charles ! at present,
remember, I am engaged to him.'

It was of no use. 'I must take away
the one that he left,' whispered Charles
Baumgarten.

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

C. & G-
SpoUiswoode & Co. Printers, yew-street Square, London.

VOL. I. U

The Argosy

nyca-ziisrE.

PRICE SIXPENCE. (The December, or Christmas
number, One Shilling.)

The A rosy is piloted with as much
skill as discrimination.'

Bell's Life in London.

Excellent as usual, and no reader
can wish for better.'  British Mail.

This favourite magazine.'

Queen.

The Argosy sails on golden sea.'

Daily Tjilegkafh.

The Argosy is the best and cheapest
of our magazines' Standard.

first among the magazines in
which fiction finds a place, stands the
Argosy. Johnny Ludlow is as charming
as ever' Daily Chronicle.

Bright and pleasing ; few of our
magazines deserve better of the public'

Land and Water.

One of the best of our bish-class
magazines' News of the World.

One always takes up the Argosy
with pleasure' Church Opinion.

One of the marvels of the day.'
London Scotsman.

Laden with golden grain.'

St. Jajies's Chronicle.

'An excellent collection of entertaining
matter.'  Observer.

'The Afgosy never ceases to interests'
Bolton Weekly.

A standard of literary excellence
at all times.'

Western Daily Mercury.

The Argosy is full of most attractive
and rewritten stories.'

Yarmouth Gazette.

A never-failing supply of pleasant
reading. Month aft er month it comes
to hand, fresh, and abundantly interesting.'
 Derby Mercury.

The Argosy is laden with golden
grain of amusement. There is no
monthly magazine gives greater pleasures'
Oxford University Herald.

There is a charm about the Ar-rosy
we do not find in any other magazine.'
Liverpool Albion.

One of the most varied and readable
magazines of the day.'  Week.

This brilliant monthly,'

Irish Daily News.

'The specialty of the Argosy is
good stories' Bristol Mercury.

Ever welcome.'

Brighton Observer.

'There is considerable merit in
Johnny Ludlow. Freshness of description
in the scenes of country life
and country people.'

Saturday Review.

Johnny Ludlow displays a considerable
sense of humour. "The author
attains to genuine pathos.'

Athenaeum.

Very few have surpassed Johnny
Ludlow's stories in homely pathos and
quiet, unforced humour' Globe.

A very pleasant fellow is Johnny
Ludlow  a capital story-teller  a right
hearty, loyal companion.'

Morning Post.

London : RICHARD BENTLEY & SON, New Burlington Street.

[p. T. 0.

WORKS BY THE SAME AUTHOR.

Uniform Edition, in Crown 8vo. cloth. Each Volume
can be obtained separately, price 68.

EAST Lynn. (150th Thousand.)

THE Hangings.

ANNE Hereford.

Betsy Race.

Colet NETHERL.EIGH.

DENE HOLLOW.

Edwina.

Easter's FOLLY. "

GEORGE CANTERBURY'S WILL.

JOHNNY LUDLOW. (1st Series.)

JOHNNY LUDLOW. (2nd Series.)

LADY ADELAIDE.

LIFE'S SECRET, A.

LORD Auburn's DAUGHTERS.

MASTER OF GREYLANDS.

MILDRED ARKELL.

MRS. HALLIBURTON's TROUBLES.

ORVILLE COLLEGE.

OSWALD CRAY.

PARKWATER.

Poverty ABBEY.

RED COURT FARM.

ROLAND YORKE. (A Sequel to ' The Channing')

SHADOW OF ASHLYDYAT.

ST. MARTIN'S EVE. (A Sequel to ' Mildred Arkell.')

Trevelyan HOLD.

Werner's PRIDE.

WITHIN THE MAZE.

London : Richard BENTLEY & 80X, New Burlington Street.

UNtVERttTY OF HUNOA-URBANA

hMP ;'.:; .

rs'Hemry Wood

('M,

m!''

xwifmiaL,

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

Of 

8Z3
W85{a

V.2L

The person charging this material is responsible
for its return to the library from.
wych it was withdrawn on or before the
latest Date stamped below.

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books
e reasons fo, disciplinary oct.on and may
result in dismissal from the University. 

jm2 2i9?*

nayOK

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/ladygraceotherst02wood

VOL. II.

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street SQUARE

LONDON

AND OTHER STORIES

BY

MKS IIENEY WOOD

AUTHOR OF  EAST LTfNNE ' ' THE Channing ' ETC.

IN There VOLUMES
VOL. IL

LONDON

Richard Bentley i SON. Ney BUP.LTXGTON STREET
Publishers in ordinary ta cr ajcstn tee nttn


All rights reserved

CONTENTS

THE SECOND VOLUME.

CHAPTER PAGE

X. The Sub-dean 1

XI. Mystification 46

XII. What the Bishop saw on the 
67

XIII. At Great Written . . . . 93

XIV. Surprises 110

XV. In Eaton Place 138

XVI. The Sub-dean Condescends . . . 149

XVII. Camilla 157

XVIII. In the Moonlit Cloisters . . . 178

XIX. The New Dean 210

A Soldier's Career 257

CHAPTEE X.

THE SUB-DEAN.

'Mary Dynevor lay awake the whole night,
thinking over what she ought to do, as she
had expressed it. To her father she could
not speak : she dared not do so ; his temper
was fiery his authority absolute ; she was
utterly in awe of him. And to speak to him
would be utterly useless  nay, worse than
useless ; for at the slightest hint of reluctance
on her part he would have forced the marriage
on.

No ; if broken off at all it must be done
without the knowledge of Dr. Dynevor.

VOL. II. B

She could only see one way out of the
dilemma  to throw herself on the generosity
of Sir Everard; but she shrank from the
prospect of doing this, and when she rose in
the morning she was as much perplexed as
when she had gone to rest.

But every hour of indecision only added
to the difficulty. Sir Everard would becoming
again in the course of the day to see
her, his promised bride. What was to be
done must be done without delay. Mss
Dynevor announced herself better, and said
that she should chaperon her nieces to the
evening's engagement, which they had been
afraid of missing. They were speaking of
it when Sir Everard called in the afternoon.


'We can get you a card also, Sir Everard,'
spoke up Miss Dynevor. ' The Lessons weill
be delighted to see you.'

You are very kind. I fear I must

decline. Just yet I do not wish to join in
any gaiety,' was his answer.

A thought occurred to Mary, and she
nerved herself to its execution  if she could
only find the chance of doing so. It came
to her when they were standing together at
the window, their backs to the room.

I have a favour to ask of you,' she
whispered tremulously. ' It is not my intention
to go out to-night : will you come
here and spend a quiet half-hour with
me?'

Thank you, Mary. I will come.'

Do not mistake me,' she hm-riedly
added. ' I must speak with you alone ; and
it is the best opportunity I shall have as far
as I can see.'

The Sub-dean was engaged that evening
to a clerical dinner, and Miss Dynevor
departed with her nieces at the appointed
hour, all three much surprised at Mary's

suddenly proclaimed resolution of remaining
at home. They had scarcely gone when Sir
Everard Wilmot entered. And now came
Mary's task.

She did not know how to begin it. She
was absent and agitated. Sir Everard could
not fail to observe her strangeness of manner.
What is the matter? ' he inquired.

A strange wild rush of red illumined her
cheek, and she clasped her hands tightly one
over the other ; so tightly as to cause pain
had her mind been at ease ; then she got up
and stood by the fire : all in the effort to
nerve herself to her task  it must be done.
Now or never.

I have a communication to make to
you, Sir Everard '

Sir Everard ! ' he interrupted, standing
near her.

And I don't know how to do it,' she
continued, unmindful of the reproof. ' Had

you been any other than  than  what you
are, I could not have made it.'

He did not speak now. He glanced at
her shrinking air, her downcast face, her
nervous hands, and waited to hear more.

I have been very wicked, very wrong.
I have let things go on, suffering you to
believe that I would  that I was going
to marry you ; and I find I cannot do
so.'

A dead pause. Sir Everard thought
that he had never seen anyone so confused,
so painfully agitated. ' I do not understand
you,' he said. ' But I think you had better
sit down,' he added gently, leading her to
the sofa, on which he took a place beside
her.

It is your coming home which has
awakened me,' she continued, scarcely knowing
what she spoke. ' Indeed, I did not
mean to do wrong, or to act dishonourably ;

but when you came yesterday evening  then
I found  that I could not marry you.'

Sir Everard thought it a singular avowal
especially singular as made to him.

Let me tell you all,' she resumed, gathering
some courage now the ice was broken,
as nervously sensitive people will do. ' I
found I did not love you ; that it would be
wrong to myself, and doubly, doubly wrong
to you, if I fulfilled my engagement and
married you ; and I lay awake all night,
thinking what ought to be my course. I did
not dare tell papa; he is very severe, he
would not have listened to me ; and I 
decided to  tell you ; to ask you to give me
up. It is what I am now trying to ask you
to do.'

She sat now with her hands clasped before
her, looking down at them, a sort of helpless
look upon her face. Sir Everard was silent.

I knew how good you were, how considerate,

how honourable, and it gave me
courage to speak to yourself, to show you
my unfortunate position, and to ask you to
be generous, and let the refusal to carry out
the marriage come from you. Oh, Sir
Everard,' she added, bursting into tears, ' I
do like and esteem you very much ; and it
nearly breaks my heart to have to say
this.'

You must forgive me if I repeat that I
do not understand you,' he said in a low,
kind tone, ' and your last words less than all.
You " like and esteem me," but you do not
love me ? I am quite content to take the
esteem and the liking, Mary ; to trust that
the love will follow.'

It never will,' she almost vehemently
answered, lifting her eyes to his for a moment
in her eagerness. ' It cannot do so.'

Another pause : her face was bent again,
and she had turned crimson to the roots

of her hair. A light dawned upon the
baronet.

You love another ! '

Oh, forgive me,' she whispered. ' It
was not willingly done ; it seems to have
come on without my having been aware of
it. He did not know it either  until last
night when you came. At least  at least 
he had never spoken of it.'

You have betrayed yourself  I suspect
unwittingly. You speak of Mr. Baum-garden
? '

She had indeed betrayed herself, and
certainly not intentionally. It did not tend
to reassume her.

Why did you accept me ? ' asked Sir
Everard.

Why, indeed ! ' she murmured. ' But I
did not know that I was doing wrong. I
liked you very much ; I admired and respected
you ; you were so different, so

superior to the frivolous men we mostly
meet. It is true I did not love you, and
even then I knew that I liked  only liked,
mind  Charles Baumgarten ; but I thought
it would all come right in the future. I
was acting in a species of dream or bewilderment,
which was the effect your offer had
upon me. I had taken a wrong view of
your frequent visits to us  you see I am
telling you all  and that alone would have
kept me from caring for you in a different
way had there been no other impediment.'

What wrong view had you taken up ? '
inquired Sir Everard.

She hesitated for a moment, and then
spoke in a low tone. ' I fancied you came
for the sake of Gertrude Baumgarten.'

Gertrude Baumgarten ! ' he repeated ina
curious intonation. ' Gertrude would not
have cared for me.'

'Gertrude would  as I truly believe now.'

Nonsense, Mary ! Gertrude Baum-garden
was wrapt in that Italian prince, who
had more money than brains

Mary shook her head. 'She did not
care for him ; and when he asked her to be
Ms wife she refused, and felt surprise, I think,
at his proposal. After it was all over  I
mean when I had accepted you and we were
away, and on our return home again  an
idea came over me that it was you Gertrude
had really cared for. I was not sure, and
I judged it better not to continue the train
of thought ; but this I know, Gertrude has
never been quite the same girl since. I
suppose I ought not to tell you this ; I fear I
am forgetting myself in more ways than
one.'

Everard Wilmot paused. 'Do you
know, Mary,' he said, ' that this communication
in regard to yourself places me in a
very painful position ? '

I can only throw myself upon your
generosity ; only plead for your forgiveness.'


Putting aside the question of my
private feelings, you place me in a most embarrassing
and painful position towards Dr.
Dynevor. He expects that I have come
home to marry his daughter ; I expected it ;
the world expects it ; and what can be my
excuse for refusing ? Can I go to him,
hat in hand, and say, " Sir, I am tired of
your daughter ; I do not intend to marry
her ? " '

She caught up the silk flounce of her
evening dress, and rolled it about in thought
as she spoke. 'How can it be managed?
what can be done? Oh, Sir Everard, can
you think of no plan ? You are so much
wiser than I.'

You seem to assume confidently that I
must consent to the breaking up of my

cherished plans  to summarily resigning my
promised wife

She looked very much distressed.
What can I do ? Can I marry you, liking
some one else ? '

Having promised to be my wife, was it
right that you should cultivate so much the
society of Mr. Baumgarten ? '

You do not understand,' she hastily
said. ' It was not right ; but you do not
quite understand. We have always been
very intimate with the Baumgartens ; my
youngest sister was named after Lady Grace,
and Charles has come here as freely as our
own brothers have come. I did not think
of any danger, I don't think Charles did ; it
is your coming home which has shown us
the truth.'

You wish me to understand that you
and Mr. Baumgarten are irrevocably attached
to one another ? '

There was a risk of the flounce being
pulled into shreds, and Sir Everard scarcely-caught
the confirmation answer.

Then will it not be better to tell the
simple truth to Dr. Dynevor? I do not
suggest this to avert unpleasantness to myself,
but '

It is the very thing that must not
be done,' she interrupted, in agitation.
Charles Baumgarten is as yet too poor to
ask for me, and papa would go wild at the
bare idea of it. He of course considers ita
most desirable thing  oh pardon me for
having to say all this  that I should  should
become Lady Wilmot, and I dare not tell
him I object. I thought if you could do it
as if the objection came from you  you
would not be afraid of him, for he could not
be harsh and peremptory with you, as he
would be with me. I know it is a great
boon to ask of you,' she added, her eyes

filling again, 'but  if you knew how unhappy,
how perplexed I am  perhaps you
would not refuse to help me.'

You forget one thing,' he returned, in a
low tone, ' that the odium of being refused
had far better fall upon me than upon you.
The world is not generous in these matters,
but I can fight it better than you can.'

I forget all things,' she answered, ' but
the bare fact before me  that I must not
marry you, and dare not confess to papa the
true cause. The world can only say that
you repented of your engagement to me.
Let it do so.'

Sir Everard was silent. He knew that
the world's ability to say it would not prove
so pleasant as she thought. ' I must have
time to consider this,' he said, rising. 'I
will see you again tomorrow morning.'

She rose also, and stood before him as a
culprit. He took her hand. 'I hope you

will forgive me ; I hope you did not like me
very much,' she whispered, raising her repentant
eyes to his.

Her words and manner almost amused
him, they were so truthful and childlike.
'I do like you very much,' he answered,
with a smile ; ' too much to part from you
without a pang of regret and mortification.'

'But you will get over it,' she eagerly
said. ' Very soon, I hope.'

It will be the second case of a similar
nature I have had to get over,' he returned,
possibly surprised out of the confession, possibly
making it with deliberate intention.
'I was going to be married in my early
youth, or what seems early youth to me
now. I was four-and-twenty.'

'And she refused you.' whispered
Mary.

'No; she died. All the love I had to
give died with her, and I had only liking

left for anyone else. I had none even of
that for a long while, for years after she
died. " Wilmot never means to marry,"
people used to say ; " he must have taken a
vow of hatred against women." They little
thought he had once loved one too much.
Do not be ungenerous, and fancy I retort
this confession upon you in requital for the
one you have given me ; it was always my
intention to make it before wee were married,
more fully than I have now done.'

Mary Dynevor's face was raised ; her lips
were parted with eagerness. ' Then  if I
understand you rightly  you have not really
loved me ? '

In the imaginative sense of the term 
no. Only  I quote your favourite words 
liked you very much. But my wife should
never have felt the want of that ideal love.'

She looked almost beside herself with
joy. A rosy flush suffused her cheeks, a

light came to her eyes, and she positively
clasped Sir Everard's hands in her own. ' I
am so thankful ! ' she burst forth, ' I am so
happy ! If you do not love me, why no
great harm has been done, and we can still
be friends. Oh, Everard, let us be friends !
There is no one in the world I would rather
have for a friend than you ; and you will be
Charles's friend also, and let him be yours.'

Perhaps  after a little while.'

Yes, after a little while. As soon as
you can ; as soon as you can forget my
ingratitude and ill doing. I know I have
behaved badly, and I do beg your pardon.
I am very happy, and shall now say to myself
over and over again, "It is not all over
and done with ; we shall still be friends." '

He fully understood what she meant to
imply, though it was not expressed in the
most lucid manner. As a candid child,
she had spoken out her mind unreservedly,

VOL. II.  C

and Sir Everard went away, regretting
that this candour was not inherent in all
girls.

The revelation she had made to him
inflicted no deep wound. When a man or a
woman has gone through the phases of the
passion called 'love,' and survived it, deep
wounds are over. A strangely bright dream
while it lasts ; sweet, pure, heavenly ; far
too much so for this earth, to all else of
which it stands in contrast. Few men  or
women either  are organised to experience
it ; their love is not this love, and let them
be glad that it is not. It had done its work
on Everard Wilmot, and had gone ; quite,
completely gone, scarcely leaving its remembrance
; but it had taken with it the inward
springs of imaginative existence ; poetry,
ideality, pure passion ; all that stands in contradistinction
to hard reality. Henceforth
he could make the best of this matter-of-fact.

work-a-day world, and strive on for the
next ; but lie knew that there was no more
life for his heart, no more thrill, no more
hope, no more satisfying happiness. l!To,
no ; deep wounds were over for Sir Everard.
The song had left the bird.

What does Byron, that great master of
the heart's life, tell us in one of his poems ?
Have you forgotten it ?

But sweeter still that this, than these, than all,

Is first and passionate love. It stands alone,
Like Adam's recollection of his fall :

The tree of knowledge has "been plucked j all's known ;
And life yields nothing further to recall

Worthy of this ambrosial sin : so shown
No doubt in fable as the unforgiven

Fire, which Prometheus filched for us from Heaven.

Surely yes ! Nothing in this world, but
that alone, can impart any idea of what
Heaven's bliss will be.

Beyond that confession of his own past
life. Sir Everard could have made another
had he chosen to do so  that his second essay

c 2

in love, the ' liking,' had not been given to
Mary Dynevor but to Gertrude Baumgarten.
He met Gertrude for the first time when she
was on the Continent with her mother. He
was strangely attracted to her ; and he took
to frequenting the house of Lady Grace.

One evening he spoke to Gertrude. Or,
it may rather be said, that he hinted he
should like to speak. She stopped him at
the outset, scorn on her beautiful face, resentment
in her voice, as she bade him be
silent and not so speak to her again. Mr.
Wilmot bowed and obeyed. But the wish
to settle down, to have a home and a wife
in it, was strong upon him. As a Frenchman
says, ' Je vais me ranger,' so said
Everard Wilmot ; and, while smarting
under Gertrude's rather premature refusal,
he wrote to ask for the hand of Mary
Dynevor.

Therefore, as the reader will readily perceive,

this confession of Mary's did not carry
a great sting with it ; and Sir Everard was
enabled to consider with calmness what kind
of communication might be made to the
formidable Canon.

On the following day, after breakfast,
Sir Everard called at Eaton Place. He saw
Mary, and went straight from her presence
to that of Dr. Dynevor. There, after shaking
hands, he quietly said that differences
had arisen between himself and Miss Mary,
and they had mutually agreed to part.

Never, perhaps, was a Canon so astounded,
never did one feel more outraged,
and  if we may venture to say it of a
divine coveting in all his heart a deanery 
never was one in a greater passion, though
he controlled it.

What was the cause ? ' he demanded.

The precise cause he and Miss Mary
Dynevor had agreed to keep to themselves,

was the answer of the baronet. It was
sufficient to say that they were both fully
convinced a union between them would not
conduce to their happiness, and they had
come to the conclusion not to carry it out.

Sir Everard said as little as he could and
left, and then up rose the fiery Dynevor
wrath. It was let loose on the family in
conclave : Miss Dynevor, Eegina, Mary, and
Grace. What the Sub-dean said in his passion
is of no consequence, and if he might
have been fined (had he been before a
magistrate) a few small sums of ewe shillings
each, we won't transcribe the fact, out of
respect to the feelings of any other sudden
who may chance to read this. Miss
Dynevor and two of her nieces were simply
confounded, not so much at the ebullition of
anger as at its cause ; Mary could only
shiver in silence, and inwardly pray that it
might pass away.

'I will know the truth,' foamed the
Canon. ' Why do you ]hart ? '

'Differences,' gasped Mary, who had
taken her cue from Sir Everard.

Differences be  be  forgotten ! ' stammered
his reverence. ' What differences ? '

Nothing that I can particularly explain,'
faintly returned Mary. ' We found that a
marriage between us woukl not lead to happiness,
and we parted.'

Won't you speak out ? ' cried he, bringing
down his clerical shoe upon the carpet.

That is all I have to say,' she answered,
drooping her head.

I am to understand, then, that Sir
Everard Wilmot declines to carry out the
enslavement ? '

Yes.' She had slightly hesitated at the
answer, but it appeared to her that she
must give it, for want of a better.

Very well,' cried Dr. Dynevor, as lie

quitted the room and shut himself into his
study. This gave Miss Dynevor and the
girls an opportunity of inquiring on their
own account. Question after question they
poured out on the unhappy Mary, but they
did not succeed in getting from her any
solution to the mystery, which, of course,
bore an ill appearance.

I very much fear it is a case of jilting
groaned Aunt Ann. ' If the days of duelling
were not past, one of your brothers ought
to go out and shoot Everard Wilmot. Dishonourable
craven ! '

Mary's cheeks burnt. The 'jilting 'had
been on her side, not his ; and it was great
pain to hear this epithet applied to one so
generous and upright.

Miss Dynevor's anger, however, could do
neither harm nor good ; but, unfortunately.
Dr. Dynevor's could, and he had adopted
precisely similar sentiments in regard to Sir

Everard. It did not occur to him to surmise
that a young lady who had waited
hopefully (as he concluded) for the return of
her bridegroom to claim her would be
likely to refuse him as soon as he appeared,
therefore he laid all the blame at his door
and not hers. A very few days, and then 
something like a thunder clap burst forth on
Mary. Her father was entering an action
against Sir Everard Wilmot for breach of
promise.

Oh, Aunt Ann,' gasped Mary, appearing
before Miss Dynevor whiter than a sheet,
what can be done ? '

Intensely provoked at the state of affairs
altogether, Miss Dynevor declined to say.
In point of fact she did not know.

Has papa really entered an action
against him ? '

How can I tell what your papa has or
has not done ? ' retorted Aunt Ann. ' If he

has not clone it he will do it ; be sure of
that. My brother Eichard is the most
obstinate man living. Once his mind was
set upon a thing when a boy, you couldn't
turn him, and I'm sure you can't now.'

But think of the dreadful scandal, Aunt
Ann ! '

Voit should tell him to think of that.'

The possibility of concealment was allover
now, as Mary saw ; and she dragged
herself, in fear and sickness, to his presence.
Is it true that you have done it ? ' she
gasped ; and the Sub-dean was at no loss to
understand her meaning.

It soon will be true. The man shall beheld
up, a spectacle to the world.'

Oh, papa, you must indo it, you must
undo it ! Do not lose a moment. It was not
Sir Everard who broke off the engagement ;
it was I.'

The Canon felt rather savage. He had

only just come from a pitched battle with
Miss Dyiievor upon this very point, his will
conflicting with hers. Miss Dynevor was
decidedly against the action, and told him it
would be derogatory to his daughter and
disgraceful to himself. Of course he did
not listen to her ; he never listened to anyone
who opposed him ; and he believed that
his sister had now been sending Mary to
him with an assertion that was not true.

'You may go back to your aunt,' said
he, ' and tell her to mind her own business,
and I'll mind mine.'

I did not come at my aunt's instigation,
papa. It was from Eegina I heard the news ;
and I have come to you to tell you the truth.
It might have been better to tell it you from
the first, as Sir Everard wished to do.'

The Sub-dean stared at her through his
great ugly spectacles, for he had been reading
a letter when she interrupted him.

What do you mean about " the truth " ? '
he sternly asked. ' What is the truth ? '

She laid her arms upon the back of a
chair and seemed to lean her weight upon
it ; he saw that she was trembling. ' The
truth, papa, is that I refused Sir Everard ;
so that if an action might be brought on
either side it would be on his. He came
home to marry me ; but I  I  could not
marry him, and he was so kind as to let
it appear to you that it was as much his
fault as mine.'

You broke it off? Of your own accord? '

Yes,' she answered.

Dr. Dynevor paused to collect his senses,
perhaps his temper. He took his daughter's
hand, placed her in a chair, and took up his
standing before her, staring right into her
face.

'Your reason for doing that, young
lady?'

Oh, papa, I cannot toll you,' she said,
bursting into tears.

Your reason ? ' he repeated. ' You do
not stir from my presence till you have given
it to me.'

She was terrified at his stern tone, terrified
at what the future might have in store
for her, terrified altogether. Better let him
know the truth and get it over, a voice
seemed to whisper to her. ' Papa,' she
breathed, bending her face down upon the
arm of the chair, ' I  I liked some one else
better than Sir Everard.'

 You liked ' The Canon stopped ;

indignation and astonishment overmastered
him.

Who is it ? ' he demanded, in an awful
voice.

She did not answer. What he could see
of her face looked as crimson as his own
sometimes was. ' Who is it, I ask ? ' he

repeated ; and shrink and shiver as she
would, there was no evading that resolute
question.

Charles Baumgarten.'

To attempt to describe the state of feeling
of Eichard Dynevor, Canon and Sub-dean of
Oldchurch Cathedral, would be a task beyond
any modern pen, for we take stings and
checks more soberly now than we used todo.
What with his condemning anger,
with her aunt's covert reproaches, with the
vexation, the suspense, and the distress the
affair had brought her, and the knowledge
that she and Charles Baumgarten were
parted for good, Mary's mind could not bear
up against it, and she became seriously ill.

Dr. Dynevor condescended to call upon
Everard Wilmot, who had taken up his
abode at the residence in Grosvenor Place,
formerly his father's house, now his own.

The Canon was in a frightful state of wrath
at the turn affairs had taken, but he was a
just man on the whole, and went to retract,
in a manner, the reproaches he had bestowed
upon Sir Everard.

I was wholly misled, you see, Wilmot ;
and I'm sorry I said as much,' he began,
which was a wonderful concession for him.
Girls capable of acting in the capricious
manner my daughter has done ought to be
made to smart for it. She took you in, of
course, as she did me.'

Why, yes, she did,' replied Sir Everard.
I'm very sorry for her, sir. I hear she is ill.'

Sorry ! Ill ! ' retorted the indignant
Canon. 'Let me tell you, Sir Everard, if
she were ten times as ill as she is she
deserves no pity. My opinion is, you should
have kept her to her bargain. However,
the time for that is past now.'

Quite so,' spoke Sir Everard.

A curt letter, couched in the haughtiest
of terms, reached Charles Baumgarten*s
chambers in Pump Court from Dr. Dynevor,
forbidding him all further intercourse with
the Dynevor family.

I know the old boy can do the thing
in style when he brings his mind to it,
but this is super-extra, Charley remarked
Eichard Dynevor, who chanced to call in
Pump Court soon after the missive was delivered.
' Cheer up, lad ; things may take
a turn.'

It was not from her son Charles that
Lady Grace heard the news of the
rupture of the engagement, but from
Everard Wilmot himself. He called in
Berkeley Square and told her what had
occurred.

'The marriage broken off!  not going
to take place at all! What can be the
reason for this ? ' cried Lady Grace, fair and

handsome as she ever had been in the days
gone by.

We have mutually agreed upon it,' he
replied.

But icy have you done that ? There
must be some cause for it, Sir Everard.'

I think,' he said, lowering his voice,
you had better ask Mary for a reason.'

Then, was it her fault ? '

It was not mine. At least, not  not
altogether. Dear Lady Grace, although I
have come expressly to tell you this, I do
not feel at liberty to speak more fully,' he
added, in a quicker tone. ' I think you will
be quite sure to hear the truth from the
Dynevors, and then I can be more explicit
as regards myself.'

Well, I am very greatly surprised,' she
said. ' But I don't think it appears to have
broken your heart.'

Hearts are elastic, and don't break so

VOL. II. D

easily,' replied Sir Everard, with a half
smile.

After he left Lady Grace sat buried in a
reverie. Her daughter, who had been out,
found her so.

Mamma,' exclaimed the latter, ' how
serious you look ! '

I was thinking, Gertrude. Everard
Wilmot has been here to tell me some
news : his engagement to Mary Dynevor is
at an end.'

Oh, indeed,' said Gertrude carelessly,
but she turned crimson.

And his manner, as he told me, has set
me wondering,' continued Lady Grace. ' My
dear, I don't believe he cares one bit about it ;
I am inclined to suspect there was not the
smallest particle of love in the matter  on
either side. Take care ! What are you
about, Gertrude ?  leaning out of the window
like that ! '

I was looking at the accident at the
corner of the square ; a horse has fallen
down,' was the composed reply of Gertrude.

And a few weeks passed on.

Mary Dynevor was not dying ; no one
said that ; but everyone did say that she was
wasting away. The Sub-dean, haughty,
cold, and implacable, would not see it ; Miss
Dynevor had begun to speak of it complainingly
; Eegina and Grace grieved. She had
a touch of low fever, and seemed unable to
struggle out of it.

Mary chiefly lay upon the sofa ; she was
too weak to sit up throughout the day.
Smarting under the displeasure of her father,
obliged to submit to the querulous remarks
of her aunt, who rarely ceased to grumble
at the rupture of so desirable a marriage,
suffering, in a less degree, from the covert
reproaches of her sisters, who felt it as a

D 2

grievance upon them, Mary had a sad time
of it. As to Charles Baumgarten, he had
gone on circuit and seemed to be done with
for ever. Even Eichard never heard from
him or of him.

But all this only shows how we estimate
things by comparison. Had it not been for
the visions opened up by Mary's becoming
the wife of Sir Everard, it might not have
occurred to Dr. Dynevor to turn up his nose
at Charles, nephew of the Earl of Avon, heir
to the half of Lady Grace's fortune, sure to
meet with support and to get on at the Bar.
Sensible and steady, Charles Baumgarten
would have been welcomed for any one of
the portionless daughters of the Canon. He
and Mary might have had to struggle a little
at first, but it would all come right in the
end, and the Sub-dean would have married
them himself with pleasure. But under the
actual circumstances  Mary's having refused

a splendid match that she might throw herself
away upon him  of course Charles
Baumgarten was nothing less than a here
noire in the eyes of the Dynevors  very
black indeed to the Sub-dean.

It is of no use, madam, my coming here
day after day to see the patient,' somewhat
testily explained Dr. Lamb, the family physician,
one day to Miss Dynevor. ' The disorder
is on the mind : some trouble, I
believe, is weighing upon her. If it cannot
be set at rest I can do no good.'

And what then ? ' asked Miss Dynevor.
If nothing can be done for her mind, what
then ? '

Why, you take away the chance of lier
getting better, and if she does not get better
she must get worse ; and the result may be
if I may speak plainly  death. It is not
in my province to inquire into family
secrets,' continued the physician ; ' but it

does seem strange that a girl of her age
should have any wasting care which cannot
be removed.'

Miss Dynevor, now very uneasy, sat
down to write an epistle  as she invariably
called her letters  to the Sub-dean, at Old-church.
She then had a serious talk with
Mary ; laid aside her crossness for the occasion,
and pointed out to her, kindly and
rationally, that it was her duty to rouse herself
and forget Charles Baumgarten. With
the effort to do this forgetfulness might
come, and with forgetfulness health would
return. Mary burst into tears, and sobbed .
so long and vehemently that Miss Dynevor
was startled, but her reply was that she
would try to forget him, provided she might
be allowed one interview with him, to
explain to him that they must finally part.

The epistle had the effect of bringing Dr.
Dynevor to town. Though harsh and stem

with this children, he was fond of them at
heart  just as his sister was  and he did not
like to hear that Mary might be in danger of
dying. He travelled up by night, reaching
Eaton Place in the morning. Breakfast over,
he shut himself in with his sister.

And now, Ann, what do you mean by
writing to me as you did ? ' began he, in his
sternest manner. ' Calling Mary names 
and all the rest of it I '

James ! ' cried Miss Dynevor.

You said she was dying ! '

I said to you, Eichard, what Dr. Lamb
said to me. And I gave you my own
opinion  that she had better be allowed to
marry Charles Baumgarten.'

I daresay,' exclaimed the haughty
Canon.

There's not a shade of chance now for
Sir Everard Wilmot,' went on Miss Dynevor.
It's of no use thinking of him. Of course

girls are only born to give a heap of trouble
to their family, and for nothing else  as I
have remarked to yours, every one of them,
over and over again  and they ought not to
be given way to under ordinary circumstances.
But when it comes to this point,
that the girl may be dying, to give way maybe
nothing less than a duty.'

What next ? ' asked the Sub-dean.

Miss Dynevor took up a screen to shield
her face, which always grew unpleasantly
pink in argument, and repeated the substance
of her conversation with Mary. That she
had promised to try to get well, provided
she might once more see Charles Baum-garden.


And did you sanction it ? ' demanded
the Sub-dean, turning round fiercely, both
hands thrust into his clerical pockets.

Why, no. I expect you'd have comedown
upon me pretty sharply if I had,

Eichard. I couldn't either, for Charles is
on circuit.'

Much good he'll do on that ! ' growled
the Sub-dean.

Time he was back though now, I suppose,'
added Miss Dynevor thoughtfully.
It is some weeks since he started on it.
Mary wants to be allowed to see him, that
they may bid one another adieu for ever.'

Let her see him then, and have done
with it,' spoke the Canon sharply.

Miss Dynevor was surprised at the concession,
but hastened to repeat it to Mary.
It made her pale and agitated.

I shall write a short epistle to his
chambers in Pump Court and let it await
him there,' said Miss Dynevor. ' No doubt
he will call here as soon as he reads it.'

Mind, aunt, I must see him alone,' said
Mary, a strangely heightened colour lighting
her wan cheeks.

You need not fear that any of us will
covet to be present ; we are not so fond of
him,' retorted Miss Dynevor.

She sent the ' epistle ' to Pump Court.
It lay there for some little time. Charles's
was the Home Circuit ; and when its business
was over, he turned to Great Written
to spend a day or two with his mother and
sister, who were staying at Avon House.
But he lost no time in obeying the summons
when he was back in London.

Mary received him alone, as she had
wished. She sat back upon the large old-fashioned
sofa in the drawing-room, her
head supported by a pillow. Charles was
shocked to observe the change in her, and
thought she must be dying.

''No,' she said to him, after they had
spoken for some time, ' I am not dying.
They think at least they say  that when
once my mind is at rest, when we shall have

parted for good, suspense exchanged for certain
misery, that I shall begin to get well
again. It may be so.'

Mary, they have no right to part us.'

It must be so ; it is to be. I cannot
act in defiance of my father.'

And you can part from me without an
effort!'

Without an effort ? ' she repeated. ' Look
at me, Charles, and then see what it has
cost me.'

He repented of his hasty words, sat
down by her side, and drew her to him.
Her head lay passively upon his shoulder ;
and they had just settled themselves into this
most interesting position, when the door
opened with a crash, and in marched the
Sub-dean. Mary's head started back to its
pillow ; Charles stood up, folded his arms,
and looked fearlessly at the intruder.

So you are here again, sir ? '

By appointment, Dr. Dynevor. And I
am grieved to see what I do see. She is
surely dying.'

'You think so, do you ? ' cried the Canon.
Perhaps you imagine you could save her life ? '

At any rate I would try to save it, if I
were allowed. What is your objection tome,
sir ? ' he hastily added, his tone one of
sharp demand. ' My connections are unexceptionable
; and many a briefless barrister
has risen in time to the Woolsack.'

I am glad you have the modesty to
acknowledge that you are briefless.'

'I did not acknowledge it, and I am not
briefless,' returned Charles. ' I have begun
to get on.'

Dr. Dynevor looked at his daughter.
Would you patronise this sort of " getting
on " ? ' asked he.

There was a strange meaning' in his tone,
which struck on Mary's ear. She rose in

agitation, her hands clasped. ' Papa, I would
risk it. Oh, papa, if you would only let me,
I would risk it and trust it.'

If you choose to risk it and trust it, you
may do so,' responded the Sub-dean coolly ;
and that is what I have come in to say.
But, recollect, I wash my hands of the consequences.
When you shall have gathered
all kinds of embarrassments about you,' he
added, turning to Charles, ' don't expect that
you are to come to me to help you out of
them. If you two wish to make simpletons
of yourselves and marry, go and do it. But
understand that you will do it with your
eyes open, Mr. Charles Baumgarten.'

The Sub-dean strutted out of the room,
and Charles caught the girl to him, for he
thought she was fainting.

How good he is to us ! ' gasped the
young man in the revulsion of feeling which
the decision brouijht him.

CHAPTEE XI.

Mystification.

Charles Baumgarten sat in his chambers,
Pump Court, Temple, enjoying an animated
discussion with his friend Jephson, the great
Chancery lawyer. About a week had gone
by since Charles had come home from
circuit, and held that momentous interview
with Mary Dynevor which had been broken
in upon by the Sub-dean. Mary had now
gone, with some friends, to Brighton for
change of air, and Charles was, so to say, a
bachelor at large again. The change from
despair to hope had so elated him that he
had somewhat rashly likened it to Elysium.

For on this morning a matter had occurred
not at all in harmony with the ease said to
be the portion of the denizens of the Elysian
Fields. A certain ugly-looking bill for
eighty-one pounds, bearing Charles's acceptance,
had been presented to him for payment.


Charles declined to pay it, on the ground
that he had not accepted it. He repudiated
the bill altogether. It was held by that
eminent legal firm, Godfrey and Herbert
Jephson ; the latter of whom had now come
to Pump Court in person, bringing the bill
with him.

I never saw it in my life until to-day,'
protested Charles Baumgarten. ' You have
been imposed upon.'

Mr. Jephson laughed. In days gone by
they had been very intimate at the University
together, and had there formed a close
friendship, though Herbert Jephson was the

elder by some years. ' Stuff and nonsense ! '
quoth he ; ' would you deny your own signature
? Look at it.'

Charles had looked enough at it, but
looked again. 'I don't deny that it's a
clever imitation, except in one particular.
This is signed " C. Baumgarten." I always
sign " Charles " in full. Look over my notes
to you, Jephson, should you have kept any,
and see if I ever signed myself in any other
way.'

If you never did it before, that's no
reason why you might not have done it on
this occasion,' was the unanswerable response.


I have never done it,' returned Charles.
Now consider, Jephson. You have known
me well for two years ; Godfrey knows me.
Do you think it likely that I would repudiate
a bill of my own acceptance ? Am I
capable of it ? '

It is scarcely possible to believe so.
But there is the bill'

And if it were mine I would take it up,
did it involve a sum that would ruin me.
Do you remember that bill in my college
days, which was such a nightmare to me ;
and some of you wanted me to plead
minority and get rid of it ? '

'And you stuck out for honour, and
declined the advice, and went into unheard-of
straits to take it up. I remember.'

'Well, Jephson, that bill was a life's
lesson to me. I declare to you that I have
never given another or accepted one. I
don't believe I ever shall.'

The bill, dated ' London,' was drawn a
month ago. Charles could not plead that
he was then on circuit, as he ought to have
been. It was a curious coincidence that at
the date of the bill he was in London,
having run up for a couple of days upon

VOL. II. E

some intricate law business, which without
him was at a standstill.

'How do you say it came into your
hands, Jephson ? ' he asked.

'We received it from White, the engraver
and jeweller,' was the reply. ' Some
property White is entitled to got thrown
into Chancery, and we have been acting for
him. The expenses are draining him, and
he had some difficulty to pay our last bill of
costs. My brother pressed for it  one can't
work for nothing ; and White brought this
bill of yours, and asked if we would take it
in payment. Godfrey did so, and handed
White the balance.'

'You ought to have doubted how a
bill of mine should get into a jeweller's
hands.'

Not at all,' drawled Jephson, who was
exceedingly indolent in manner and speech.
Father likely hands for a gentleman's bill

to get into, I should say. White told us
the bill was given for jewellery you had
bought

Jewellery ! ' retorted Charles. 'All the
jewellery I have bought in the last six
months is a silver pencil-case  if you can
call that jewellery; and for that I gave
seven shillings and paid at the time. I am
not likely to lay out eighty-one pounds in
jewellery ; I am laying by for something far
more important than that.'

Well, what's to be done ? '

'Nothing  as far as I am concerned.
You'll not get me to pay a bill I've never
seen or heard of.'

We must protest it, Baumgarten.'

I can't help that.'

They came to no satisfactory conclusion.
And Mr. eJephson departed, taking the bill
with him, declaring to the last, in his idle,
joking manner, that the bill was undoubtedly

Library

Charles Baumgarten's, and might have been
accepted in his sleep.

Charles was busy all day. After snatching
his dinner in the evening, he went out to
call upon the elder of the two Jephsons ; for
in spite of his assertion that he should do
nothing the affair was giving him concern,
and he determined to look into it. Godfrey
Jephson lived in the neighbourhood of Lincoln's
Inn ; a keen grasping man was he,
quite a contrast to his brother Herbert.
He was in his dining-room, but came out of
it at once to Mr. Baumgarten.

It is incomprehensible to me how ycu
can deny the signature,' he said, entering
upon the matter at once. ' If you saw my
signature or Herbert's you would know
them, would you not ? '

Yes. But '

And we in the same way know yours,'
he interrupted. ' I recognised it the moment

I saw it. White is a respectable man ;
there's not a more upright tradesman in the
City of London ; he is not one to say you
accepted the bill if you did not. It is most
strange that you should disown it, Mr.
Baumgarten.'

Did White tell you I accepted it ? '

He told Herbert. I have not had time
to see him.'

Go with me to him now,' suggested
Charles. ' He will not say to my face that
I have bought jewellery of him and paid
him with a bill. I never saw the man in
my life to my knowledge, and never was
inside his shop.'

Godfrey Jephson, his interest and curiosity
aroused, agreed to the proposal ; and
they proceeded in the dusk of the spring
evening to the jeweller's, in one of the leading
thoroughfares. A showman was standing
at the door.

Mr. White in ? ' asked the lawyer.

Yes, sir.'

You go forward first,' whispered
Charles, ' and enter upon it. I should like
to watch his countenance. I'll come and
confront him at the right time.'

A smile, that caused Charles to knit his
brow, crossed Mr. Jephson's face as he advanced
to the jeweller. The shop was
brilliant with gas. Charles sat down near
the entrance, as if to wait for his friend.

This bill,' began Godfrey Jephson,
taking it from his pocket-book, ' was due
to-day and presented for payment. Mr.
Baumgarten refuses to take it up. He says
it is a forgery.'

But hov can Mr. Baumgarten say
that?' returned the jeweller, after a few
moments given to what looked like astonishment.
' He accepted the bill in my
presence.'

Mr. Baumgarten says that he does not
know yon, and that he never was in your
shop to his recollection,' continued the
lawyer.

Why, how is it possible that he can assert
so palpable a falsehood ? ' retorted Mr.
White. ' He was here when he bought the
jewellery, and has been in once or twice besides.
Let me come face to face with him,
Mr. Jephson, and you'll see whether he will
dare deny it. He must and shall pay the
bill.'

Charles Baumgarten walked slowly forward,
and the jeweller's eyes fell upon him.
Why, that  that  is Mr. Baumgarten ! ' he
uttered, though in a tone of hesitation.

Yes ; I am Charles Baumgarten.
There's some mistake here, Mr. White, that
I cannot understand. How is it that you
told Mr. Jephson we have had dealings together?'


Because we have had them,' returned
the jeweller. ' The question is, how is it
that you deny it? I recognise you fully
now, sir. You purchased several articles of
jewellery of me and paid me with this bill.'

I never bought a shilling's worth of
jewellery of you in my life,' replied Charles
Baumgarten. ' But if I had, I should not
have been likely to pay you by a bill. If I
bought jewellery, I should pay you in cash
for it.'

And that is what you were going to do,
sir ; there's no doubt you came in with the
intention of paying it,' returned Mr. White.
You asked me to make the account out, and
I did so. You laughed when you looked at
the sum total, it was so much more than you
had thought for ; and you took out your
pocket-book and counted the banknotes in
it, and then said you had not much more
than half enough with you, and the shortest

way would be to draw a short bill, say at a
month's notice. I had no objection. I took
a bill-stamp from my desk, drew out the bill,
and you accepted it at this very counter.'

It is all news to me,' replied Charles.
I repeat to you, Mr. White, that I never
was in this shop before to-night. I never
signed or saw the bill ; I never bought any
jewellery here whatever.'

The jeweller appeared mystified. Certainly
Charles Baumgarten did not look like a
man who would deny his own responsibility ;
moreover, the young barrister's irreproachable
character was well known. Yet Mr.
White knew that he had come in and bought
the jewellery.

You may as well seek to persuade me
that the sun never shone, Mr. Baumgarten,'
he remarked. ' Why, after the transaction
was over, and while my ma an was putting up
your purchases, did you not come into that

room at the back there and drink a glass of
old madeira ? You complained of feeling
chilled, and I persuaded you to take it.'

It is altogether absurd ! ' retorted Charles,
vexed at the words. ' I never did anything
of the sort, and you must be mistaking me
for some one else. Had I bought jewellery,
I should have paid for it in cash, I tell you 
not by a bill.'

You took one glass of old madeira at
White's,' observed Jephson, as they walked
up the street. ' I think you must have taken
two before you went there.'

I see you believe White, and not me.'

There's no possibility of disbelieving
White. Whereas you  why, Baumgarten,
it is your own handwriting ! Shall you take
up the bill ? '

No. It is none of mine.'

What shall you do ? ' asked Mr.
Jephson.

I shall sleep upon it ; and perhaps have
a quiet word with a gentleman-detective.'

As he gained Pump Court, having
wished Godfrey Jephson good-evening, and
turned into it in a brown study, a whistle
high up greeted him. Gazing upwards,
Charles perceived the face and whiskers of a
friend of his looking out from the window of
some chambers not far from his own.
Hi, Baumgarten ! Come up.'
Can't. Have some work to do.'
Then take the consequences.'
A shower of something liquid was in
preparation of descent. Charles Baumgarten
made a dash, and disappeared up the stairs.
Peter Chester  a grandson of that old Mr.
Chester who was once Rector of Great
Written, though the reader may have forgotten
him  received Charles with a basin
of hot soup in his hand.

'You'd have caught it nicely, Charley,

basin and all ! Just look at the precious
stuff she concocts for a fellow, dying, pretty-near,
of an inflamed throat I I told her
beef tea, and she goes and makes this.'

Charles knew of the storms that Peter
Chester, who, like himself, lived in his
chambers for economy's sake, and his old
laundress had together. ' Is your throat no
better ? ' he asked.

'Much you care whether it's better or
worse ! ' retorted Peter Chester, a slight
young man, with a delicate face and blue
eyes. ' I'd never go from my word, Baum-garden.
You promised to come in and sit
with a fellow last night, but deuce a bit
came you.'

I added " if I could," Peter.'

Well, if you could not  that's to say, as
you did not  you might have sent Joe in to
tell me so. Just get ill yourself, and see
how lively your evenings would be with

your throat in flannel, expecting a fellow
who never comes ! '

I was coming in at eight o'clock, when
old Tomkins called in, and asked me to give
him a glass of wine, while he talked over
old times. Every quarter of an hour I
thought he'd go ; instead of which he stuck
on till eleven o'clock and finished the
bottle.'

You'll shine at the Bar, Charley, when
you can invent a white he after that rapid
fashion, and stare a man in the face as you
tell it.'

Tomkins was in my chambers.'

Tomkins might be. But you were not.'

V/hat do you mean, Peter ? '

Peter Chester was looking at him, and
laughing in a most provoking manner. ' I
don't see why you should make a mystery
of it, Baumgarten,' he said. ' If you did
choose to go out to enjoy yourself, instead

of passing the evening with a sick chum,
there's no reason why you should not
admit it

Admit what ? ' asked Charles.

Only you might have dropped me half
a word by Joe. Who was the lady?
Come, Charley ; confession's good for the
conscience.'

Tell me what you want me to confess,
and perhaps I may do it. I'm all in the
dark.'

Oh, of course,' mockingly returned
Peter Chester. ' But a truce to jesting, old
fellow,' he added in a different tone. ' Wliy
need you keep it so quiet ? Who was the
lady ? '

'What lady?'

'That you escorted last night to the
Haymarket. Grand tier ; first row.'

I was not at the Haymarket last night,'
returned Charles.

'Oil, but you cere,' answered Peter
Chester, with an emphasis that unmistakably
pronounced his own belief in it.

'Hear me a minute, Chester,' quietly
returned Charles. 'I have this evening
been pretty nearly persuaded out of my own
identity, and I don't care to enter upon
another discussion of a similar nature. I
have told you that Tomkins was with me
last night until eleven o'clock, and I told
you truth. I did not stir out of my
chambers, and by a quarter-past eleven I

was in bed.'

When we assert a thing in good faith it
is somewhat annoying to find the assertion
received doubtfully. Peter Chester stared
at Charles. He knew him to be truthful ;
but he did not believe him now and
Charles saw he didn't.

'It was in this way,' narrated Peter.
Satchel looked in this morning on his way

to court, just to ask how my throat got on.
Hope you enjoyed waiting for Baumgarten
last night, Chester," said he  for he had offered
to stop the evening with me, and I
told him I didn't want him ; I should have
Baumgarten  "hope you were jolly; he
was." "Why?" said I; "how do you
know ? Baumgarten never came." " No,"
returned Satchel ; "he was at the Hay-market,
rather close to a lady all the night ;
saw a good deal more of her face than he
did of the stage."  I say, though, Charley,
you were a bold fellow. Suppose Mary
Dynevor had come up from Brighton and
been there ? '

I wonder Satchel did not say it was
Mary Dynevor  or you,' retorted Charles
Baumgarten.

You would not like it if we did,' returned
Peter Chester. ' This looked like
quite another style of damsel. Satchel

thinks you had been punishing the wine,
for he never saw you so gay and sparkling
before  quite an improvement on the usual
staid quietness of Charles Baumgarten. He
told you so.'

Told me so ! ' repeated Charles, in astonishment.
' Does Satchel say he spoke tome
? At the theatre ? '

Peter Chester nodded. 'He spoke to
you in the throng coming out ; but he could
not get very near you, he says ; only gave
you a few words over the people's heads.'

'He gave them to someone else, not tome.'


At which remark Peter Chester laughed
as heartily as his throat allowed him.

Charles stayed with him until ten o'clock,
and then went home to his chambers, letting
himself in with his latchkey. Turning up
the gas in the inner room, where he generally
sat, he touched the bell upon the table.

VOL. II. F

Joe came in to answer it. He was a smart
lad of fifteen, who slept in the chambers.

Anyone been here, Joe ? '

No, sir, not since I came back,' replied
the boy.

When was that ? '

Only now, sir.'

Only now ! ' repeated Charles Baum-garden.
' Why, where did you stay ? '

They kept me ever so long down there,
sir, while they was answering of the note 
I put it upon your table, sir. Mother was
here, too, to answer anybody that might
ring. She had some work to do.'

'Well, look here, Joe. If you are
going to take to be long on your errands 
as you have been several times lately  I
shall have to replace you with some one who
can be quicker. You can go to bed now.'

WHAT THE BISHOP SAW ON THE
BLOTTING-PAD.

Early the following morning, while Charles
was at his breakfast, and before the arrival
of his clerk, he was surprised by a visit from
the Bishop of Denham  the same bishop,
only older, whose ear for music was deficient,
as he once confided to Lady Grace. A good
but rather strict and straitlaced man, who
had never ceased to take an interest in
Charles since Dean Baumgarten's death,
with whom he had been very friendly. His
carriage had brought him to Pump Court 
at least, as near to it as was possible ; he
came upstairs and apologised to Charles,

who rose to receive him, for his early visit.
He was on his way to Lambeth Palace,
where he had an appointment.

The Bishop opened his business standing,
saying he had not time to sit. It appeared
that he was trustee for something or other,
a very trivial affair, but it touched the rights
of the Church, as he solemnly worded it,
and an action at law was unavoidable ; if
his young friend felt sufficient confidence in
himself to do them justice, he would see
that he was appointed leading counsel ; it
might be a lift to him in his profession.

Of course all this is sub rosa,' remarked
the prelate. ' You will receive particulars
from the solicitors, together with the brief
I'll write down one or two points, if you
will give me pen and ink, to which your
attention must be chiefly directed, and then,
if you think you can master them, I'll
mention you to the solicitors.'

If your lordship will be at the trouble
of sitting to my desk, you will find all you
require at hand,' said Charles, rising to pilot
him to it.

Down sat the Bishop and wrote rapidly
for five minutes. ' Have you some blotting-paper
? ' he asked.

The blotting-pad is under the paper
you are writing upon,' explained Charles,
and the Bishop drew it out.

Bending his head, he stared at it through
his spectacles. Then, turning his severe face
to Charles, he spoke in a tone that ought to
have annihilated him.

Do sou give this to me to use, sir ? '

Charles advanced quickly, looked, and
stood confounded with vexation. On the
blotting-pad, white and clean, for the top
sheet must have been taken off, was a fiincy
drawing in pen and ink, bold, clear, and well
done, of half-a-dozen ballet-girls in very airy

costumes. The colour flew to Charles's
face ; he knew what the Bishop was. What
on earth, would he judge, must be his
private pastimes, if he could adorn his
professional desk with such sketches, and
set a bishop down to regale his eyes with
them?

Charles tore off the sheet in a heat.
I assure you, my lord, on my word of
honour, that I know not how those  those
things came there. Some one must have
been here last night unknown to me, and
taken the liberty to leave a remembrance
behind him.'

Allow me to recommend you to burn
it, sir,' said the scandalised divine.

Yes, but I will first of all endeavour to
identify the offender,' was Charles's answer.

Up rose the Bishop, his head erect, and
his apron rustling.

Charles attended him down the stairs,

but his lordship did not shake hands with
him. Back tore Charley, two stairs at a
time. Joe's mother, who lived near at
hand, and came in to attend to the work at
stated times, was then removing the breakfast
things.

Were you here last night while Joe was
out, Mrs. TufF.P '

Yes, sir. I had some cleaning '

Who came in ? ' interrupted Charles.
Nobody came, sir  not a single soul.*
Who has been into this room this
morning ? ' continued Charles.

Only me, sir, to put it to rights.'
Did you do this, then ? ' asked Mr.
Baumgarten, pushing the sheet of blotting-paper
under her eyes.

Me ! ' cried Mrs. TufF, who was a sharp-faced
little woman in a neat stuff gown and
white cap. ' You must be joking, sir.
When I saw it there in dusting, I thought

what odd-looking ladies they was. And
I put the writing-paper upon 'em, to cover
'em up a bit.'

Charles reflected. ' Joe wouldn't do it ? '
he remarked.

Joe ! ' said Mrs. Tuff in astonishment.
Why, sir, Joe would not dare do such a
thing as that. He couldn't either. Joe
haven't no talent that way. When he was
a little one, I'd give him a pencil and piece
of paper and tell him to draw the cat, but it
would come out more like a pump.'

That just brings us round to my argument,
that some one else has been in the
room,' said Charles. ' Now I want to find
out who that is.'

It must have been done in the daytime
yesterday, sir.'

The last thing before dinner yesterday
evening, after Mr. Clay left, I wrote a note
at the table and used this blotting-pad,'

returned Mr. Baumgarten, ' and left it as I
used it, much marked with ink. Did Mr.
Clay come in last night for any purpose ? '

No, sir. And if he had, he'd not have
left them disrespectful things behind him.'

That was true enough. But Mr. Clay,
joint clerk to Charles and another young
barrister, might have let some one in who
had so amused himself; some lawyer's clerk
with a hasty brief, who possessed more skill
than discretion. However, the woman persisted
that no person whatever had entered ;
and Charles Baumgarten thought it a mystery
which seemed, for the moment, incapable
of solution.

Sitting down to his desk, he began to
look over some papers. A few minutes
later, and Charles had occasion to open one
of the deep drawers on either side the desk.
He took his bunch of keys from his pocket
and fitted one into the lock. But it would

not open. The lock had evidently been
tampered with  and he had left it in perfect
condition the previous evening. Mrs. Tuff
was called in again.

Will you believe now that some one
has been at mischief in the room ? ' demanded
her master. ' They have been at the
drawers : I cannot unlock them.'

She stood, somewhat incredulous ; and
Mr. Baumgarten, taking another key, tried
the opposite drawer. It opened readily, but
he gazed at it as if transfixed. ' Look here ! '
he sharply uttered.

The woman advanced and stood behind
his chair. It was full of papers and parchments,
all in a mass of inextricable confusion.

Do you see this ? ' he cried sharply.

I see the drawer is in a line mess,' washer
rejoinder.

Now Hasten, Mrs. Tuff. Yesterday
evening, after I had written the note I spoke

of, before I sealed it I opened this drawer to
put a parchment in ; at that time it vas in
perfect order, and I locked it and left it so.
There is some mystery in all this.'

Mrs. Tuff could dispute facts no longer ;
she had to give in, to the evidence of her
eyes. ' Sir,' she said, ' what a good thing it
is that I was here last night instead of young
Joe ! We might have accused him of doing
it for mischief.'

'I don't know that it is a good thing,'
significantly retorted her master. ' The fact
must be that you dropped asleep last night
and let some one get in.'

The woman was indignant at the insinuation.
'Sir,' returned she, 'I'd rather you
accused me of doing it myself than say that.
I don't think I as much as sat down last
night, for I thought it a good opportunity to
clean out the cupboards ; and that's what I
was doing the whole evening.'

Dismissing her, Charles Baumgarten sat
thinking it over. By a desperate wrench he
succeeded in opening the drawer, and its
contents appeared to be untouched. Altogether,
it was singular. Had anyone got in
for the purpose of plunder, rummaged over
the contents of one drawer, attempted the
lock of the other, would he have been
likely to leave this trail behind hint in the
shape of those ballet-girls, whose appearance
had nearly done for the Bishop ? No.
Charles concluded some one of his own
acquaintances must have done it for a ' lark,'
and he would very much like to find out
which of them it was.

Only a few minutes had elapsed when
Mrs. Tuff reappeared, asking permission to
speak.

It has all come over me this moment as
clear as daylight, sir,' she began, advancing
a few steps into the room. ' Some rogue

must have got in last night through your
leaving the key in the passage door.'

Through  what do you say ? ' asked her
master.

The latchkey, sir. You left it in
the door when you went out the second
time.'

I don't know what you mean, Mrs.
Tuff. I did not leave my key in the door
last night or any other night.'

'Why, yes, sir, you did,' was her answer,
spoken in a tone of remonstrance. ' Else
how could I have got in ? '

What are you dreaming of now ? You
have your own key.'

But you took mine from me last night,
sir. Don't you remember ? ' she added,
seeing Mr. Baumgarten appeared not to
comprehend. ' When I came back I found
the latchkey in the door, and I knew you
had left it there for me ; but I thought it

not a safe thing to do, sir, if you'll forgive
me for saying it.'

Charles Baumgarten looked at the woman
in amazement, for not a syllable of what she
was saying could he understand. He ordered
her to explain.

When you came back, sir, not long
after you went out '

Stop a bit. We shall never come to the
end in this way. I went out after diner,
and I came home at ten o'clock. I took
my key with me, and let myself in with it
on my return. What other tale are you
telling ? '

I don't mean that at all, sir ; I mean
when you came back at dusk,' obstinately
persisted the woman.

I did not come back at dusk.'

Mrs. Tuff paused, wondering, no doubt,
whether night and sleep had affected her
master's memory. ' Sir,' she said, ' perhaps

you might call things to mind if you tried.
When you had gone away after dinner I
went out to do an errand or two, and had
just shut the door, when you ran up the
stairs and took my key from me to let
yourself in. I suppose you had forgotten to
take out yours. I was away maybe half an
hour, and when I came back what should I
see but my latchkey outside the door  and
I know my key from yours, sir, by the dent
in it. I knew you had left it there for me
to get in with ; still I didn't think it was
safe. London is such a place for thievery 
and the Temple's no more secure than any
other part.'

You have done a pretty thing,' was the
comment of Mr. Baumgarten. ' It was not
to me you gave the key.'

The woman felt hurt. ' I'm near-sighted,
sir, I know that, and my eyes are sometimes
at fault ; but they are not so bad that I

could mistake anybody else for my own
master.'

A silence ensued. Mrs. Tuff cMefly
passed it in staring. Charles signed to her
to retire.

He sat on, asking himself where and what
the mystery could be. Personated at the
jeweller's, his handwriting appearing upon a
bill, accused of showing himself off at the
Haymarket Theatre in questionable companionship,
and now personated in his
chambers to the deception of his own
servant !

Had Cyras Baumgarten been in Europe,
Charles might have supposed, remembering
there used to be much likeness between
them, and might be still, that he was the
actor in all this ; but, as Charles knew,
Cyras was where he had been for some years
past  in New Zealand.

An uncomfortable feeling clung to

Charles all day ; go where he would, he
carried it about with him, even to the courts
and into the presence of the judges.

In the evening he went to call at Eaton
Place ; he had not done so since Mary went
to Brighton. Dr. Dynevor was still in town,
and, much to Charles's surprise, he found
that Mary was also ; she had returned that
day. Upon being admitted, he saw the
maid who had, as he knew, attended Mary
crossing the hall.

You are back again, Sarah ! ' he exclaimed.


Yes, sir, we came up to-day,' the girl
answered, and proceeded to explain the
reason. The family they were staying with
at Brighton received news of the dangerous
illness of a relative at Cheltenham, and had
to speed thither at once.

Instead of beings shown to the drawings
as usual, Charles was marshalled to

VOL. II. G

a small one off the dining-room, and Miss
Dynevor came to him. By the fierce look
of her flaxen wig, her raised eyebrows, and
her haughty tone, Charles saw that something
was amiss.

Then it is Mr. Charles Baumgarten ! '
she exclaimed, as if his appearance solved a
doubt. ' When the butler announced your
name, I told him he must be mistaken.
May I inquire the purport of your visit, sir ? '

Charles laughed. Miss Dynevor was
subject to changes of mood and manner, but
he did not let them trouble him, any more
than the boys and girls did. ' I came to
take tea with you for one thing. Miss
Dynevor. And Mary has come home, I
hear,' was his answer.

Yes ; she has returned,' stiffly responded
Miss Dynevor. 'But  you must be aware
that it is not convenient to receive you this
evening.'

Charles looked at her ; there was something
in her voice, her manner, that he had
never met before, and his pulses quickened
with a sense of coming evil.

Or at any future time,' continued the
lady, who had not taken a seat or asked
Charles to do so.

But why ? ' exclaimed Charles. ' What
have I done ? '

You cannot really need to inquire,
Charles Baumgarten, and it will be particularly
unpleasant to me to inform you,' said
she.

]Nevertheless, I must press you to do
so,' said Charles. 'A man cannot meet a
charge blindfold, Miss Dynevor.'

She drew herself up ; the flaxen curls
seemed to bristle. ' I saw you in a situation,
sir, the night before last at the play,
which  which  which  in fact, perfectly
shocked me. " If that dear defunct gentle

2

man, the late Dean of Denham, had seen
this," I breathed to myself, "he would have
disowned his son  as we must do from this
hour." And I came straight home, I avow
to you, sir, and acquainted my brother, and
said sufficient to my nieces to satisfy them
that you were a black sheep. Since Mary
returned I have explained to her ; and  and
of course she will give you up.'

Charles had listened to her with deference.
' Now will you please tell me. Miss
Dynevor, where you saw me, and what the
situation " might be,' he said when she had
concluded.

You are truly bold to ask it, Charles
Baumgarten,' she retorted. ' But what else
could I expect ? No, sir ; my communication
is closed.'

I beg your pardon ; your communication
at present amounts to nothing. To
continue it is due to me.'

Very due,' she sarcastically answered.
And no less necessary than due, considering
that you saw me as plainly as I saw you.'

Was it at the Haymarket Theatre ? '

Miss Dynevor gave vent to a modest
little scream, which she smothered in her
handkerchief.

'Whether it was at the Haymarket or
whether it was at Westminster Abbey, it
need not be alluded to,' she retorted, ' and I
have never been subjected to speak of such
things. You are a hypocrite, Charles Baum-garden
; it is what most young men of the
present day are. I've heard them compared
to whited sepulchres, and I think the comparison
a very good one. Our interview is
at an end, sir.'

She swept away majestically, leaving
Charles to make an ignominious exit from
the house. But Charles was not in a hurry
to do it. He wanted to explain, yet with

whom ? The Sub-dean was so hot and peppery,
especially in the first blush of an affair,
that an explanation with him generally did
more harm than good. Apart from that,
what explanation had Charles to give?
None. None that would be believed.

As he stood thus thinking, the room
door was slowly pushed open and Eegina
appeared.

'She's gone, isn't she, Charley Was
she very dreadful ? '

'Very,' returned Charley, shutting the
door.

When Aunt Ann has a (grievance no
one can come up to her, and it's many a
year since she had such a grievance as this
one,' went on Eegina. ' Oh, Charley, what
fun it was !  how did you pluck up the
courage ?  and who was it ? '

Just tell me what you've heard,' said
he.

'That you were at the Haymarket
Theatre, m its most conspicuous place,
bearing a lady with painted cheeks. We
got it all out of Janet, Aunt Ann's maid.
You should have heard Aunt Ann in her
room last night, old Janet says, and all the
names she called you ! '

I suppose this has been told to Mary ? '

Trust Aunt Ann for that. Who was
the lady, Charley ? '

'I wonder, Eegina, whether you'll
believe me if I tell you something ? '

Try me. Perhaps you are going to say
it was Gertrude ? '

Gertrude is at Great Written, you
know. I don't know who it was, Eegina,
for I was not at the theatre at all.'

Not at the theatre ! '

No. I was in chambers all the night.
I've heard of this already. A friend of
Peter Chester's thought he saw me there 

just as you describe. It must have been
some fellow who bears a resemblance to me.
Can't you get Mary to come down to me ?
Do, Eegina. And you will please tell her
from me that there's not a word of truth in
the tale. I must see her for a minute or
two.'

She will have to smu2;o-le herself down
the staircase, then ! Aunt Ann is sure to be
on the watch,' returned Eegina. ' I'll go
and see.'

Very shortly Mary came stealing in.
She was looking pale, but in better health
than before she went to Brighton. Charles
stood before her in agitation.

Mary, before I attempt to greet you, let
me assure you that the story which they
have got up about me is utterly false. You
will not believe it ? '

Oh, no, no,' she wildly said, as she
burst into tears and put her head upon his

breast. He was about to clasp her in his
arms when the door was flung back and Dr.
Dynevor walked in.

To your room, young lady,' he cried
out imperiously to the terrified girl, who had
drawn away from her lover with a gasp.
Have you no sense of shame ? To your
room, I say.'

Closing the door after her retreating
figure, the Canon turned his wrath upon
Charles. 'How dare you appear at this
house ? '

Charles knew what that wrath meant,
and strove to arm himself for the contest.
'There's no reason, sir, why I should not
appear,' he was beginning, when the sudden
stopped him, all the floodgates of his
temper let loose.

To Charles's confused astonishment, he
found that all was known  the repudiated
bill for jewellery ; the lady with painted

cheeks on his arm at the theatre ; the disreputable
ballet-girls on his blotting-pad.
The last item had been confidentially mentioned
that afternoon by the Bishop of
Denham.

Meeting Dr. Dynevor on his return to
town, the Doctor, full of wrath even then,
had told the prelate about Charles and the
Hay market episode, upon which the Bishop,
sadly put out for Charles's sake, reciprocated
the information by telling of the pen-and-ink
sketches.

He is going to the  ahem !  to the
bad all one way,' growled the Sub-dean 
and would have said the ' deuce,' but remembered
to whom he was talking.

Charles stood speechless, literally not
knowing what defence to make. ' Will it be
of any use my denying this, sir ? ' he asked
in a pause of the storm.

Denying it ! To me ? Does this

impudence become you, Charles Baum-garden
? '

It would not become me, sir, if it were
true. But  nay, pray hear me for a
moment, Dr. Dynevor  it is not true. I
declare to you, sir, as truthfully as I can
ever speak in this world, that, so far as I am
concerned, it is all false. It was not I who
did this.'

Dr. Dynevor glared at him through his
spectacles.

I did not buy any jewellery, and I did
not accept the bill ; I was not at the theatre
or out of my chambers that night ; and I
cannot tell who it was that drew the fissures
on the blotting-pad. I did not know they
were there until the Bishop spoke. Do you
believe me, sir ? '

Believe you ! I believe you to be a
rascal, unworthy to remain inside my house.
I will trouble you to go out of it.'

The Sub-clean rang the bell. ' The door
for Mr. Charles Baumgarten,' he said to the
servant.

Charles splashed through the streets in
the mud and the rain, for it had turned out
a boisterous night, wondering whether he
should ever be able to clear himself, and
whether the police would be able to fathom
the mystery if he called them to his aid.

CHAPTEE XIII.

AT GREAT Written.

The trees at Great Written grew bright
with the tender green of spring, and the
hedges were budding into leaf. Gertrude
Baumgarten was slowly walking through
one of the country lanes towards Avon
House, enjoying the freshness of the morning.
The sun shone, the skies were blue
and unclouded, the air felt warm almost as
that of a summer's day, and the birds sang
with a rapture that is so exhilarating on
these days when all nature is springing into
new life and beauty.

Gertrude had been into the village. She
looked fair and lovely as ever ; more lovely,

perhaps, than her mother had looked before
her, for her face was a less proud one.
Proud enough it was, but not as Lady
Grace's had been ; and latterly Gertrude's
had assumed a somewhat sad expression, as
if she were not altogether as happy as of
old.

Leaning over the small wicket which
was placed only a few yards from the large
iron gates at Avon House stood Lord Avon,
looking at her as she advanced. He had
been living at his place all the spring, and
his sister. Lady Grace, with her daughter,
Gertrude, had for the last few weeks been
staying with him. The Earl was the same
good-natured man he had ever been, and
looked very little altered. His locks were
more scanty than of yore, and a few silver
threads might be seen amongst them, but in
all else he appeared unchanged.

You are back at last, Gertrude ! '

At last? ' she repeated. ' Why? Have
you wanted me, Uncle Avon ? '

Not at all. But I have been watching;
for you for an age. What are you carrying
in that small parcel ? '

Feminine matters in which you can
scarcely be interested,' laughed Gertrude.
I've been matching silks in the village for
my screen work, and it took me a long time,
for I wanted many shades. Then I went onto
see old Mrs. Whittaker, who grows more
deaf and crotchety day by day.'

Lord Avon opened the gate for Gertrude,
and she passed through. She now stood
by his side, whilst he, leaning over it as
before, appeared to be gazing at the far
distance.

'Are you watching for some one else,
Uncle Henry?'

No,' replied Lord Avon ; ' I was only
thinking, Gertrude. I am going down to

the rectory presently ; your mother wants
me to ask them to come in to dinner

Oh, pray do,' said Gertrude. ' It will

make it less dull for them and for us

I wish you would tell me something,' she continued,
after a pause.

Well ? What do you want to know ? '
he inquired, certain in his own mind as to
the nature of her request.

'The letter you were reading at the
breakfast-table  I chanced to see the writing,
you remember, and said it was from
Charles ; upon which you put it hastily into
your pocket, telling me that I saw too much
and too quickly. It was from Charles, was
it not?'

Yes. You were quite right.'

Then why did you rush it away in that
fashion, and pretend that I was mistaken,
Uncle Henry ? '

'Because I wished not to draw your

mother's attention to it. I did not altogether
understand the letter, and wanted to
go over it again alone. Charley has been
getting into a mess.'

What sort of a mess ? ' asked Gertrude.

'All sorts of messes,' replied his lordship.
He was seen at the play one night in
strange company. Again, the old Bishop
of Denham, calling at his chambers, found
some very unorthodox pen-and-ink sketches
on his blotting-pad. Charley forthwith went
down in his lordship's estimation, and lost
some work the Bishop had just offered him.
I should like to have seen the cood man's
face,' broke off Lord Avon, laughing.

But is that all ? ' asked Gertrude. ' It
does not seem a very terrible affair, if there
is nothing more behind it.'

It certainly sounds rather like a case of
Much ado about nothing," ' assented the Earl.
But it is not quite all. Charles has been

VOL. II. H

going in largely for jewellery, and can't, or
won't, pay for it.'

'It is very unlike Charles to do that,'
said Gertrude.

The singular point in it is that Charles
altogether denies it,' continued Lord Avon.
'He protests to me that he has not done
anything of the kind ; and thinks that someone
must have been personating him, either
in jest or else as an out-and-out fraud.'

Is the bill for jewellery a heavy one ? '

Nearly a hundred pounds.'

A hundred pounds ! ' exclaimed Gertrude.
' I cannot believe it. What is your
own opinion. Uncle Henry ? Do you think
Charley has done all this, or that some one
as he calls it  has been personating him ? '

Shouldn't care to go too closely into
that question,' said his easy lordship.
Shouldn't have the smallest doubt upon the
point myself, but for one thing : Charley has

hitherto been the very quintessence of truth
and honour.'

Of course he is, and always has been,
and always will be ! ' cried Grace warmly.
He is not likely to change now. Uncle
Avon, Charles would never buy jewellery
that he could not pay for. As to the play
I suppose they mean that he went to it
with some fast young men  perhaps had
been dining with them. I daresay he
couldn't help himself.'

That's just it,' said Lord Avon. ' It is
so easy for young fellows living in London
to slide unconsciously into debt and all

manner of trouble Do you see that

hill ? ' he added, pointing a little way to the
left.

Written Beacon ? Yes. But what has
that to do with Charlie ? '

'When I was a youngster, I and some
other lads used to go to the top of that

H 2

mound and slide down it. Once off, no
earthly power could have stopped us until
we reached the bottom. So is it with young
fellows like Charley ; once in for a thing, it
is almost impossible to pull up. In this
instance, I daresay, he bought chains and
rings at different times, never pausing to
think that in the end the sum would mount
up to a formidable item.'

Does he ask you to help him ? Is that
his reason for writing ? '

Not at all. He distinctly disowns any
motive of the kind ; does not intend to pay
the bill himself, or to allow anyone else to
pay it for him. He says he knows that
Dr. Dynevor is about to acquaint me with
the whole affair, and wishes to give me first
of all his own version of it. Amongst other
changes the engagement with Mary is broken
off.'

But that is serious,' exclaimed Gertrude,

much troubled. 'It will ruin both their
lives ! Who has done it ? '

Dr. Dynevor, and on account of these
matters. I'm sorry for Charley, and suppose
I must see into it,' concluded the Earl, passing
at length through the gate. ' If I find
he has imposed this fine tale of innocence
upon me, I shall be more angry with him
than I ever was before in my life. Don't
speak of it to your mother, Gertrude. Now
I must be ofi' to the rectory.'

He walked away. Gertrude went slowly
up the garden and crossed to a natural arbour
formed by the interlacing trees, and there
sat down on a bench overshadowed by the
flowering lilac and drooping laburnum.
Removing her straw hat, and letting it hang
from her arm by its long blue streamers,
she began to think of Charles. She wished
Lord Avon had shown her the letter ; but
he had declined to do so. A faint sound of

voices came to her through the open window
of the drawing-room ; some one must have
called, and was talking with her mother.

Perhaps it is Mr. Brice,' she thought,
alluding to the old doctor, who was attending
Lady Grace. ' He must be back from
London, I think. He ran up for a few
hours, he said, and that's two days ago.'
But it was not on Mr. Brice, or on anyone
else likely to call, that Gertrude's mind lingered
; it was on this new trouble of Charles's,
and what it might or might not involve in
the future.

If she and Charles should part for good,
would Everard return to her ? ' shyly wondered
Gertrude with flushing cheeks. ' He
said Why Who is this ? '

She half rose in her astonishment. Strolling
down the broad path from the house
came Sir Everard Wilmot. Could it be he ?
Gertrude gazed as one in a dream.

He went as far as the little gate, over
wliicli she and Lord Avon had recently been
leaning, stood there for a minute looking
out, and then returned. When opposite
Gertrude's arbour, he caught sight of the
soft folds of a muslin dress, and turned
quickly. Gertrude felt greatly agitated.
Sir Everard walked across the lawn and
held out his hand.

I am so much surprised,' she said,
as her own hand met his and her
lovely face turned to rose colour. ' I
had not even heard that you were expected.'


I came down from London this morning,'
he answered, as he took his seat beside
her. ' When Avon was last in town he invited
me to come to him for a day or two.
Having nothing particularly on hand just
now, I thought the occasion too good to be
lost.'

He paused, looking earnestly at Gertrude,
who felt her nervousness increasing.

You are not sorry to see me, Miss
Baumgarten ? '

Oh, no ; why should I be sorry ? ' fluttered
Gertrude. 'We must all be glad to
see you, for it is dull here. I often wish
myself away.'

Are you glad to see me ? ' he asked,
more pointedly.

Oh yes ! I am  very glad,' said Gertrude,
hesitating, and again blushing violently.
And mamma and Uncle Avon weill be especially
so.'

A moment's silence. Then Sir Everard
took possession of the hand again, and bent
a little forward, his face, slightly agitated,
turned to hers.

'I am given to plain speaking, as you
may remember, Gertrude ; I cannot beat
about the bush with fine phrases, as some

men can,' he said. ' My dear, I came here
to-day with one sole object  that of asking
you to be my wife. Oh, Gertrude ! don't
say me nay again ! '

She bent her head and her changing face,
but gave him no other answer.

Don't you care for me, Gertrude . ' he
continued sadly. ' Cannot you care forme?'


And, what with surprise, perplexity, and
agitation. Miss Baumgarten lost all her
dignity and burst into tears.

Somehow he did not regard it as a bad
omen. Perhaps he was an expert at interpreting
signs and tokens. However that
might be, he put his arm round her and
drew her gently to him.

My darling ! ' he whispered with impassioned
fervour. ' I see that you will not
send me away.' And Gertrude bent her
face still lower as she murmured :

Perhaps you have not heard  Mary
Dynevor and Charles  their engagement is
broken off.'

He gathered her meaning at once.

Gertrude, don't you know me better
than that ? ' he rejoined. ' Did you not
know, did you not see in the past days, that
it was not Mary Dynevor I loved, but you ?
When you refused me, refused even to listen
to a word I would have spoken, I turned to
Mary in  I fear I must say it  vexation of
soul. My dear, why did you treat me so ? '

Should she ever be able to tell him ?
Not yet, at any rate. She had mistaken his
frequent visits to the sick daughter of a lady
staying in the place, friends of her own and
of Lady Grace. A foolish, gossiping woman
had whispered to Gertrude that Mr. Wilmot
was paying so much attention to this young
sick lady that their engagement was an
absolute certainty. Gertrude believed it,

and became at once so resentfully jealous,
that when Mr. Wilmot not long afterwards
spoke to her, in her pride she retaliated upon
him with indignation. No, she could not
tell him all this to-day, or speak of the sore
repentance which had ever since lain upon
her.

She drew herself to the end of the bench,
put her hat on decorously, and essayed to
converse upon indifferent topics : the beauty
of the day, the scent of the lilac, the song of
the birds. ' Do you see that laburnum ? '
she asked, scarcely knowing wdiat she said.
It is my favourite tree ; the most beautiful
of all trees ; the most graceful of all
blossoms.'

Yes,' he replied ; ' I almost agree with
you. The country people call it "gold
chain " down with us,' he added, smiling.

Down with you ? '

In the country where my home is ; the

fairest county in the heart of England.
Soon to be your home also, I hope, Gertrude.
My darling, may the chains that
bind our future lives together be as fair and
golden as those of your favourite blossom.'

Does Uncle Henry know you are here ? '
she suddenly asked.

'Why, of course he does. I was with
him for half an hour before he went out.'

I wonder he did not tell me you were
here. '

He no doubt thought he would leave
it for me to tell you. I have his best wishes,
Gertrude, and your mother's also. Ah,
my dear, you can find no excuse for turning
from me now.'

Gertrude rose. He placed her hand on
his arm, and they walked together up the
path. Lady Grace looked at them from the
window with a smile of welcome. Sir
Everard nodded to her.

A remembrance rushed into Lady
Grace's heart, and a flood of tears to her
eyes. Just so, m that very garden, in the
days long gone by, had she loved and
listened. Listened and loved and yielded to
the impassioned vows of him who had alone
made a heaven of her life  Gertrude's
father, Eyle Baumgarten.

CHAPTEE XIV.

SURPRISES.

Hand locked in hand, they stood together
in the dusk of evening; at the chambers in
Pump Court, gazing into one another's eyes
Cyras and Charles Baumgarten.

It was the evening after Charles's ignominious
exit from the house of Dr. Dynevor.
He had been busy all day ; had been in
court, the junior counsel in an insignificant
case ; had made one at a consultation at
Lincoln's Inn ; had been occupied in other
ways. The only personal thing he had
found time to do for himself was to write
the letter spoken of in the last chapter to
Lord Avon. And now, the day's work

over and this dinner over, he was mentally
deliberating as to whether he should at once
apply to the police for counsel in his curious
dilemma, or wait and see what the next day
or two would bring forth  when he heard
the sound of a visitor approaching.

A gentleman of free and easy manners
had run up the stairs to the door which bore
on it the name of ' Mr. Charles Baumgarten/
Knocking with the silver head of his very
elegant cane, he had stood humming a tune
until the summons was answered by the boy,
Joe. ' Master in ? ' he cried airily, and
walked forward without waiting for a reply,
as if he knew his way about the chambers
as well as Joe himself did. The boy stared
in amazement ; he had never seen two
people so much alike as this gentleman and
his master.

Charley, lad ! ' Joe heard him say in
salutation.

The resemblance was certainly wonderful.
Height, figures, features, even the
voices, were the same. Only in the expression
of the two countenances a difference
might be seen. That of Cyras was gay,
light, laughing, as if he had never in his
whole life heard of a thing called care ;
that of Charles was thoughtful and rather
sad. And their resemblance to their late
father, the Dean of Denham, was as great
as it was to one another.

Don't you know me, Charley ? '

Intense surprise had struck Charles
dumb.

Yes, I know you, Cyras, my brother ;
but I can't believe yet that it is really you.'

There's no mistaking the likeness,'
laughed Cyras. 'Look at yourself in the
glass, and then look at me. Folks might
vow we were twins. You are silent with
surprise, Charley.'

I am more than surprised : I am bewildered.
Sit down. How long have you
been in England ? '

A few weeks. But most of it has been
spent in Paris, not m England. I've been
sticking to work like a brick for a longtime,
and I thought I had earned a holiday ;
so I came over to the old country, to see
you all. When I arrived I found you had
all flown in different directions : you had
gone on circuit, and Berkeley Square shut
up.'

They are staying at Great Written
with Uncle Avon. You should have sent us
word that you were coming, Cyras.'

I couldn't. I steamed away from Wellington
the very same day that I made up
my mind to come over. The fact is,
Charley, I  but I need not bother you by
going into everything,' added Cyras. ' How
is the dear mother ? '

VOL. II. I

Quite well.'

And Gertrude ? Is she as pretty as
ever ? Any chance of her getting spliced ? '

'You should keep colonial terms for
colonial life,' quoth Charles. ' Spiced ! '

All right,' promptly returned Cyras.
Is there any prospect of the fair Miss
Baumgarten's being led to the hymeneal
altar?'

Charles stopped his ears. ' That's worse,
Cyras ! ' And they both laughed.

'Answer my question, Charley. What
of Gertrude ? '

'Well, I  can't say anything for certain,'
hesitated Charles. ' But I should not
very much wonder if we heard of a wedding
before very long.'

Cyras became serious. He was aroused
to interest in his sister, of whom he had
always been especially fond. ' I hope it's
something good, Charley.'

Good in every way, if it turns out to
be fact. Plenty of money, and an admirable
man. He likes her, I think, and she
more than lives him. It is Everard
Wilmot;

'Everard Wilmot,' repeated Cyras in
surprise. ' Once attached to the embassy in
Paris?'

The same.'

I know him, then. He'll do.'

How can you have known him ? ' asked
Charles. ' He was in Paris only for a short
time, and it's ever so many years ago. You
must have been about seventeen.'

Not quite as young as that, Charley.
I took a flying escapade without leave over
to Paris, with John Sermon, angering ' 
his face flushed, and he spoke in a low tone
and with deep feeling  ' my dear father.
You knew nothing of it ; you were at Eton.
Gertrude knew, and so did Lady Grace. In

l2

Paris I saw Wilmot, but did not become
acquainted with him.'

You don't know much of him, then.'

Wait a bit. Not much ; no. After
that  later  Wilmot was over in Wellington,
where I did make his acquaintance.
What's more, I was able to render him a
service, which I know he has not forgotten
to this day.'

'What was it?'

'Don't ask me, Charley, for I can't tell
you. I promised him then I would never
speak of it, and I never shall. Not that
there was anything dishonourable to him in
the affair, but the contrary. If Gertrude
has chosen him, she has done well.'

There's nothing certain about it yet, I
fancy. Only, a hint was whispered to me

that Cyras!' burst out Charles, as an

idea flashed across him. ' It was you who
came to my rooms here the night before

last ! It was you who pilfered the key from
my old laundress ! '

Cyras nodded. ' I took the key from
her hand and let myself in with it. The
woman took me for you ; I saw that and
kept up the joke. And when I got in,
Charley, I found only empty rooms ; no one
to welcome me.'

But you need not have played up Old
Harry with them, Cyras ; turned the drawers
inside out and ornamented the blotting-pad
to the Bishop of Denham's pious horror and
my own confusion.'

The blotting-pad ! Oh, I left that as a
memento of my visit ; I had no card-case
with me,' laughed Cyras. ' And for the
drawers, I had only a fancy, Charley, for
seeing what you kept in your lockers.'

You know the Bishop of Denham ? '

I ought to do so. He used to read me
lectures an hour long. I remember he once

told my father that he ought to keep over
me the severe rod of correction.'

Well, he was here the next morning
early, and in all innocence I gave him the
blotting-pad to use. You may, perhaps,
fancy his looks, and his opinion of me, when
those sinful sketches met his outraged eyes.'

Charley thought his brother never would
cease laughing. It was the best joke, he
declared, that he had heard for many a day.

But there are other things, Cyras,'
Charles resumed, 'and they are not trifles.
You have been forging my name to a bill.'

All the mirth in the elder's face gave
place to astonishment. ' Forged your name
to a bill ! ' he exclaimed. ' What do you
mean ? '

I mean what I say,' returned Charles.

I declare most solemnly that I have
never done anything of the kind, Charley.
You may put down as much folly to me as

you will ; but -forgery I You are dreaming,
lad.'

You bought a lot of jewellery from a
man named White,' continued Charles, who,
of course, was no longer at any loss to know
who had so mysteriously personated him.
You paid him by a bill, purporting to be
accepted by me. And you '

But the bill's not due ? ' hastily interrupted
Cyras, lifting his head in surprise.

It was due a day or tW'O ago, and '

By Jove ! I made no memorandum of
the date. How time flies ! '

But Why did you attach my name to it ? '

I signed it with my own name, " C.
Baumgarten." I made it payable here, for
I had no settled address in London, with all
of you out of it  north, south, east, and west.
By Jove ! that bill due ! They didn't bring
it to you, did they ? '

Of course they brought it to me,

believing it was mine. And I disowned it,
and it's not paid yet ; and there's I don't
know what work about it. It was a pretty
close imitation of my handwriting, Cy.'

It was my own handwriting, and no
imitation of anyone else's. I wrote my name
as I always do. and always have done. As
we are alike in person, Charles, so we are in
writing. You know it.'

You have given me little opportunity of
knowing it of late,' was the reply. ' It must
be months since you wrote to me, Cyras.'

I've made your letters to me do duty
for both of us,' returned the free-and-easy
Cyras, ' and have sent you one of our
splendid newspapers in return. I have no
end of business letters to write now, besides
looking after the shipping ; so that when the
day comes to an end I don't care to set to
work again.'

You seem to have taken quite a business

turn,' remarked Charles, only half
believing in his brother's industry.

I took that a long time ago. It's a
positive fact, Charley. They are going to
give me a share in the concern.'

Who are ? '

Brice and Jansen. Anyway, they talk
of it.'

And what about this bill, Cyras ? '

Oh, I'll see to it,' said Cyras airily.
Don't let it bother your head, lad.'

It seemed that he did not allow it to
bother his own. Seated back in Charley's
easiest chair, his legs stretched out to the blaze
for the evening was chilly, and a fire had
been kindled  Cyras lighted a small meerschaum
with which he had come provided,
and held it between his complacent lips.

One can't do long without one's smoke,'
he remarked. ' Hope you don't mind it up
here, Charley ? '

Not after business hours,' laughed
Charles. 'Have you any more bills out,
Cyras ? '

One more.'

And made payable here ? '

Cyras nodded.

And what is the amount . '

'Can't remember. A hundred pounds
or so. It's a Bond Street tailor. I was
obliged to have a regular rig-out. Colonial
tailors don't do for London.'

Charles Baumgarten recalled a rumour
he had heard about a month before  that
whispered inquiries were being made as to
his finances.

'Cyras, do you want to ruin me?' he
cried in a startled tone. ' I must take up
these bills if you do not.'

Take up the bills ! ' echoed CjTas.
What fors You did not accept them.'

But the people think I did.'

Rubbish ! Let them think what they
like. I'll go with you to the parties, and
show myself, and convict them of their error.
Charley, lad, what a long face you are drawing
! Just as you used to do when we were
young boys and I led you into a scrape.
Didn't I always get you out of it then ? And
ril get you out of this. In fact, you are not
in it.'

How will you get me out of it ? '

By paying the bills myself. I'll settle
all up before leaving England.'

Why not pay at once ? '

Can't,' lightly returned Cyras. ' Money
runs away over here ; it simply melts in
Paris. I brought about three hundred
pounds with me, and it's all gone. I've
telegraphed out to old Brice to send me
more.'

Why did you not pay the jeweller at
the time you bought his goods ? '

The bill came to so much more than I
had thought for, and I hadn't enough in my
pocket. Oh, it's all right, old fellow.'

And pray, Cyras, if I may put so bold
a question, for whom were all those pretty
things bought ? '

For one and another. Some for myself.
Some for Gertrude. Some to send out to
Wellington.'

For Gertrude ? '

To be sure. I'm keeping them all for
her. Having left Wellington so hastily I
was not able to lay in a stock of presents, so
I got some over here. And I got some for
Mrs. Warrington.'

Who on earth is she ? '

Our purser's wife. She made the passage
with him this time, to pay a visit to his
folks in London. Good-hearted people, both
of them, and made as much of me on board
as if I had been a lord. The ship is chartered

by Brice and Jansen, you know,
Charley.'

Then you will go with me to these
people about the bills, Cyras the jeweller
and the tailor ? ' resumed Charles, after a

pause.

'I'll go now, if you like. I don't
want to let you in for annoyance, brother

mine.'

You have let me in for a good deal of
that already, Cyras. Were you at the Hay-market
two or three nights ago ? '

Yes.'

And there you were taken for me. Who
was the lady ? It was half over London the
next day that I had been there in suspicious

company.'

What a joke ! ' exclaimed Cyras, knocking
the ashes out of his pipe and putting it

up.

You may look upon it as a good joke,

Cyras, but it has half ruined me,' said Charles,
with some bitterness.

'I knew I was being taken for you,
Charley,' said Cyras carelessly. ' Some fellows
nodded to me, and one or two spoke,
and I nodded back again and kept up the
jest.'

'A sorry jest for me, Cyras. I was engaged
to be married  to Mary Dynevor.'

I'm uncommonly glad to hear it,' cried
Cyras, stretching out his hand to grasp his
brother's. ' Mary was the nicest of all the
younger girls  as nice as Camilla.'

I said ' ' was engaged," Cyras. It is broken
off now. Old Miss Dynevor saw me, as she
thought, at the Haymarket with some one I
had no business to be with ; and she went
home and told the Sub-dean. The next
time I called in Eaton Place he turned me
out of doors, and bade me think no more of
his daughter.'

Cyras suddenly became serious. ' This
has gone farther than I intended,' he cried.
All my life I have been getting myself or
others into scrapes, and I suppose I shall do
so to the end of the chapter. And the best
and the worst of it is that I generally manage
to come out in worse colours than I deserve 
as on this occasion.'

Charles looked up. 'Have they been
traducing you as well as me ? ' he asked.

'The lady I treated to the theatre was
no other than ]airs. Carington, as good a
woman as ever lived, although, as Tony
Bumpkin would say, her cheeks are as broad
and red as a pulpit cushion. But it is all
genuine colour, Charley, just as she herself
is a genuine woman.'

'What brought you there alone with
her ? ' asked Charles.

That I was with her alone was an accident,'
answered Cyras. ' I treated them to

the Haymarket, and took three of the best
seats. At the last moment, just as we were
about to start in a cab, Carington's old father
came in to spend the evening, and he had to
remain with him.'

I think you were imprudent, to say the
least of it,' laughed Charles. ' The lady was
wonderfully got up, I was told.'

'Like all born colonists, she is fond of
any amount of fans and feathers,' returned
Cyras. ' It was her first introduction to a
London theatre, and a great occasion to her,
and she put on all her war paint accordingly.
But of other paint she had none, Charley;
she is too honest and good for that.'

Where are the Warrington staying ? '

'With his brother. He's a widower, and
lives at a pretty house up Chelsea way.
Decent, intelligent people, Charley ; though,
of course, not up to your mark.'

And where are you staying, Cyras ? '

I ! You may well ask it, mon free.
Finding no home open to me on landing,
the first individual I dropped upon, after
leaving the ship at the dock?, was Harry
Brice. He is in Somerset House, you
know  getting on, too ; and was bound
that morning on some expedition to the
Customs. He told me you were on circuit ;
thought the mother and Gertrude were
at Avon, and said I must come to them at
Norwood. Down I went. But Norwood's
out of the way for a fellow who wants
to knock about town, and I came back
to an hotel. Then I went to Paris with
Tom Howard  you know Tom Howard,
Charley ? '

Don't I ! Spends all before him, and
does no work.'

Cyras laughed. ' I met him accidentally
one morning. He said he was off to Paris
that evening, and I agreed to go with him.

VOL. II. K

And here I am back again. And now you
know all, Charley.'

Quite enough too,' laughed Charley.
'We'll go to White's now.' And Cyras
agreed with alacrity.

The jeweller's shop was lighted when
they reached it. Mr. White and his assistant
were both in it. Charles walked forward ;
Cyras held back a moment.

I hear that bill is protested, Mr. White,'
began Charles.

Yes, sir, or about to be,' answered the
jeweller. ' And I must say I am surprised
that a gentleman like yourself should allow
things to come to such a pass. If it was not
convenient to you to pay it now, you might
have renewed it.'

I tell you again, as I told you before,
that the bill is none of mine,' said Charles.
I never bought the articles.'

I say that you did, sir, and that the bill

is yours,' returned White, showing temper
for the first time. ' To deny it is a paltry
subterfuge which a gentleman in your position
should be above '

Charles interrupted. ' You would swear
to me before the Lord Mayor, I suppose ? '

Before all the Lord Mayors in the three
kingdoms and the corporations too,' retorted
White, now thoroughly roused. 'If
you '

Cyras walked forward and stood beside
his brother.

'Look at this gentleman,' said Charles
Baumgarten.

The jeweller gazed in amazement, now
at one, now at the other. 'What does it
mean ? ' he cried at last. ' Who are you,
sir ? ' turning to Cyras.

Well,' cried Cyras, who looked upon
the whole matter as an excellent joke,
don't you know me again ? '

K 2

You must be twins ! ' exclaimed the
perplexed man.

'Not at all,' said Cyras. 'We are
brothers, but not twins. I'm two years
older than Mr. Charles Baumgarten.'

Sir,' said the jeweller, turning to
Charles, ' allow me to ask why you did not
explain to me that you had a brother who
bore to you so remarkable a likeness? It
might have solved the mystery.'

Because I never thought of him at all
in the matter ; I did not know he was in
England. Of course, Mr. White, you now
exonerate me'

As if everyone did not ! ' exclaimed
Cyras. ' The trouble, Mr. White, has arisen
from my careless habits. We colonists are
proverbially careless, you knows Making
no memorandum of the date, I did not know
the bill was due. I have been spending
most of the interval in Paris, where time

flies, one forgets how quickly. It will be all
right now, and your bill will get paid with
out your troubling to protest it.'

They next called upon the holders of the
bill, the Messrs. Jephson, who in their turn
were equally surprised ; the elder cynically
remarking they might have had the wit to
know that Cyras was at the bottom of the
mischief. And then they went back to
Pump Court, where Charles had ordered a
substantial supper for Cyras's benefit.

We don't go in much for eight o'clock
dinners over in New Zealand,' remarked
Cyras, 'but we make up for it in supper.'

Then Cyras grew confidential. He spoke
of a certain fair daughter of Mr. Jansen, the
second partner in the New Zealand house.
She and Cyras were privately engaged ; and
he declared that if he could only win her he
should throw carelessness to the winds and
become as steady as old Time.

Her mother, a well-born Englishwoman,
favours it,' observed Cyras. 'She thinks
there must be any amount of latent good ina
dean's son. Mr. Jansen opposes it : not
that he objects to me personally, but on the
score of my want of prospects. He told me
point-blank that he would give her to me
were I able to become a partner in the
firm.'

'The difficulty is money, I suppose,
Cyras?-'

Just so. Four thousand pounds. They
would give me a small share in it for that
sum.'

And you have not got it ? '
I have never saved anything.'
And what of the young lady herself? '
I only wish it rested with her ! ' answered
Cyras. ' She would soon be mine.
Ah, Charley, if I could only encompass that
partnership, it would make a good man of

me and steady me for life. If I have to part
from her  well, I don't thhik I should much
care what went with me, or what the end
was  perhaps ruin.'

Charles was silent. He remembered how
passionately he and Cyras had loved each
other as boys, although Cyras did put upon
him and tyrannise over him ; and he asked
himself whether he should give up his own
marriage for a time and save his brother.
He had about two thousand pounds put by ;
part of it he had saved by degrees, part had
come to him by a recent legacy. If he gave
that to Cyras his own marriage must be
delayed, but he knew Mary would wait for
him. It would be a grievous disappointment
to both of them ; but should disappointment
be placed in comparison with his friendless
brother's welfare  his welfare in this world,
and, it might be, in that to come? The
other two thousand would no doubt be

managed amongst them  possibly by Lord
Avon.

'You have not told me her name,
Cyras.'

 Anna  Anna Jansen. To me the prettiest
name in the world. Ah, Charley, if
you only knew her ! '

Charles fell into deep thought. When
supper was over Cyras brought out his meerschaum
again. It was nearly one o'clock
when he took his departure. Charles went
down the stairs with him.

You have not told me where you are
staying, Cyras.'

Here, there, and everywhere. Just now
I am at the '' Tavistock." Good-night,
Charley, boy : a demain.'

Charles released his hand, and stood a
moment to watch him away. Cyras broke
into a song as he crossed the flags, regaling
the slumbers of Pump Court with

the sentiments of the renowned Mr. Paul
Clifford :

Oil, there never was life like the robber's,

So joUj, so bold, so free !
And its end ? Why, a cheer from the crowd below,

And a leap from a leafless tree.

CHAPTEE XV.

m EATON" PLACE.

Richard Maude-Dyne VOR, Doctor of Divinity,
Canon and Sub-dean of Oldchurcli,
was seated in this study at his sister's house,
Eaton Place, when two young men were
shown into it. The sight of the first, Charles
Baumgarten, was sufficient to make him
spring to his feet, his very shoe-buckles
sparkling with wrath,

Again ! ' he stuttered. ' Do yon dare
appear in my presence to beard me with
your insolence? But for the memory of
your father I would order my servants to
put you forth.'

Why, you are more peppery than 3011
used to be, Doctor,' cried a voice from
behind Charles  that of Cyras ; who had
about as much reverence for a high church
dignitary as for a native savage of his
adopted land. The Canon stretched his
stern, dark face round, to see whose bold
voice might be thus addressing him.
Charles spoke.

When I assured you I was not at the
Haymarket Theatre the other night, sir, you
might have trusted my word, after knowing
me all these years. It was my brother who
was there ; and Miss Dynevor was deceived
by the resemblance.'

The Sub-dean gazed at both of them.
'What! is it you?' he exclaimed. 'Come
back to trouble England ? '

I am here to honour it and its natives
with a visit  you amongst the rest,' cried
the undaunted Cyras, as he shook the sudden's

reluctant hand. - Glad to see you in
robust health and voice, sir.'

The reverend gentleman coughed.
Cyras, years ago, had gone in and out of his
house like his own boys, and been on the
same familiar terms with him. He turned
to Charles.

Then am I to understand that you were
not at the theatre, Charles Baumgarten?
She insisted that you were there most positively,
you know, and she did not allow me
to doubt her assertion.'

To be there under the circumstances
described Avould be very unlikely for me,'
returned Charles. ' I think you might have
known, sir, that I was not capable of it.'

Something like ' Plague take her ! '
escaped the lips of the Canon.

I'm sorry I offended Aunt Ann,' said
Cyras. ' I hear she looks upon my nodding
to her as a personal insult. What if I had

a lady upon my arm when I nodded?
Admit Ann never liked pretty women, I
remember, and that one is pretty beyond
common ; a star, Doctor, of the first
water.'

For once in his life the Sub-dean's fancy
was tickled. He enjoyed a side fling at his
sister. And Cyras was, in his opinion, so
very lost a sheep that, had he appeared at
the play with an army of ladies instead of
one, it would have given the Sub-dean no
manner of concern.

You had better go to the drawing-room
and make it right with them,' he said,
when the young men had explained about
Mrs. Carington and one or two other matters.
'Tell Ann all this, and re-establish
yourself in her favour.'

It may as well be remarked that the
likeness between the brothers was not so
very astonishing when they were together,

or to those who knew them well. A very
great resemblance there undoubtedly was,
quite sufficient to deceive the jeweller, and
Miss Dynevor also, who had no suspicion
that Cyras was in England. But to
strangers, looking at the two for the first
time, the likeness was marvellous.

It chanced that Miss Dynevor was this
morning in an exasperated mood, brought
on by her ineffectual endeavours to induce
Mary to say she would give up Charles
Baumgarten. Her chosen seat when lecturing
her nieces was the music-stool. Drawn
to the middle of the room, she sat, perched
like Jupiter on Olympus, tall and formidable,
in a grass-green stiff gown with balloon
sleeves, her flaxen curls elaborately
arranged and her tongue sharpened.

It seems to me that the world must be
coming: to an end,' she said, haransuincf all
three girls in general, but Mary in particular

; ' and the sooner the better, if this
is to be the order of things. In my younger
days we modest maidens never so much as
looked at an unmarried man ; as to talking
openly of one, as I have seen you girls doing
over and over again, we should have been
shut in our rooms for a month after it.
While you, Mary Dynevor, scruple not to
uphold Charles Baumgarten's conduct the
other night ! '

'What I say is this. Aunt Ann  that
Charles could not behave in the manner you
relate,' responded Mary, a sound of tears in
her voice.

'How dare you insult me by doubting
my word ? '

I don't doubt your word, aunt ; I
doubt your eyesight. You mistook some one
else for Charles.'

Miss Dynevor shrieked. 'You insolent
girl!  mistook him, did I? When he

turned his ice impudently towards mine,
and grinned and nodded to me ! He
winked, too ; I vow and protest he winked.
The fact is, he must have been making free
with some sort of wine.'

He assured me in the presence of papa
that it was not himself  that it was a mistake,
for he was not out of his chambers at
all that night.'

And you believed him ! ' scoffed Miss
Dynevor.

'With my whole heart,' warmly returned
Mary, a glowing colour dyeing her
face. ' I would rather die than disbelieve
Charles Baumgarten.'

That's a pretty modest avowal ! ' gasped

Miss Dynevor. ' You will Eegina,

what on earth are you doing there ? '

Only what you told me to do, Aunt
Ann,' replied Eegina with the utmost apparent
innocence, as she held out Miss

Dynevor's knitting, nearly the whole of
which she had been quietly undoing.

/ told you ! ' shook Miss Dynevor, half
beside herself with vexation. ' I said to
you, " Do a bit." '

Oh, " Do a bit," ' commented Eegina.
'I thought you said, "Undo a bit." I'm
sure I'm very sorry, aunt. It was a nightcap
for Archdeacon Duck, wasn't it ? '

Aunt Ann's wrath was arrested midway,
for Charles and his brother at that moment
entered. She knew Cyras at once, and
pushed up her wig a little in astonishment.
Cyras advanced to the young ladies to greet
them in what he called New Zealand
custom, which they found meant neither
more nor less than kissing.

When the noise and laughter had subsided
Cyras turned to Miss Dynevor.
May I venture to touch your fingers with
the tips of mine, Aunt Ann ? '

VOL. II. L

No response. Miss Dynevor had not
recovered from her petrifaction.

It's only right to ask before presuming
went on Cyras ; ' because, you know,
at the play the other night you looked as
though you wanted to annihilate me.'

However annihilating Miss Dynevor
might have looked the other night, she
looked very foolish now. Cyras standing
before her with his gay glances, Grace and
Eegina enjoying her discomfiture, and Mary
drawing nearer to Charles, as if it were her
own sheltering place, a happy smile on her
eye and hp.

Miss Dynevor 's temper was exceedingly
acid just then. ' The Sub-dean forbade you
the house,' she said sharply to Charles.
Do you set him at defiance ? '

The Sub-dean 1 ' interrupted Cyras.
My dear lady, we have been making ourselves
comfortable with the Sub-dean in his

study for this half-hour. He sent us to
you here that we might do the same with
you.'

There was no daunting Cyras. Miss
Dynevor demanded whether he knew the
meaning of the word ' impudence,' and why
he had presumed to address her that night
under such very doubtful circumstances.

The circumstances will bear the strictest
investigation,' laughed Cyras. 'The lady
I escorted to the theatre is charming, and
one of my very good friends. I'll bring
her to see you if you like.'

'Mary,' whispered Charles, whilst Aunt
Ann was striving to frame a fitting answer
to this last most astounding proposition,
they did not make you doubt me ? '

Never, Charles.'

Were it my case,' spoke Eegina boldly,
'I should get married at once, and live
upon cold mutton and barley water until

L 2

Charley's briefs came in more quickly.
You may be parted for good if you don't
by some plausible tale or other. One never
knows what may happen.'

A soft flush lighted Mary's cheek ; cold
mutton and barley water bore no doubtful
prospect for her. But Charles sighed
deeply. He could carry out Eegina's suggestion,
and add something to it even, upon
his present briefs  he knew that ; but then
how was he to help Cyras ?

Chapter XVI.

THE SUB-DEAN CONDESCENDS.

In one of the pleasant rooms at Avon
House, its windows open to the lawn, to the
scent of the flowers and the sound of the
bees, harbingers of the approaching summer,
there stood a group of fair people. We
know most of them. Cyraa and Charles
had travelled down that morning to Great
Written ; and Charles had whispered to his
mother all about Cyras's prospects of the
partnership and of Anna Jansen, and of
how he meant to help him. It did not
please Lady Grace. Cyras had stepped
outside.

Don't tell me, Charles. I know Cyras.

If you help him tc-day, he'll need help
again tomorrow.'

That is rather unjust, mother mine.
Cyras has needed no help from us up to
this very day. He did not ask for it now.
I think you have always misjudged him a
little. You never loved him as you loved
me and Gertrude.'

How could I ? ' somewhat sharply rejoined
Lady Grace. ' Another loved him
more than all if I did not  his father.'

Weil, I feel that wee ought to help him
to this chance, mother,' said Charles. ' I will
do my part to it, and perhaps Uncle Henry
will do the rest. It seems to me to lie in
our duty  at least, in mine. Come hither,
Gertrude ; tell mamma what your opinion
is. You have been listening to our conversation.'


Gertrude Baumgarten came forward, a
tenderness in her blue eyes. She knelt at

her mother's knee  a half-playful, half-fond
position she had always rather favoured 
and spoke in a low, sweet tone.

'I have been listening, as Charles says,
mamma. I am sure he considers it right
that this help should be given to Cyras.'

And what is your opinion, Gertrude ? '
demanded Lady Grace. ' They are both
your brothers ; Charles in a nearer degree
than Cyras.'

'My opinion is that it would be a sin
not to help Cyras. If Charles is willing todo
so, why oppose it, mamma? I only
wish,' she earnestly added, ' that it was in
my power to do it.'

Are you doing penance, Gertrude ? '
suddenly exclaimed a rich, mellow voice
from the door of the room ; and Gertrude
rose laughingly to face Sir Everard Wilmot.

I am not convinced,' exclaimed Lady
Grace. 'You are both of you misled by

your affection for Cyras. I wonder what
you would say, Sir Everard ? ' And she put
the case before him in a few words.

Sir Everard listened, and laughed a little.
That must have been Cyras I saw flying
over the grass just now,' he remarked. ' Well,
as to the matter under discussion, of course
it would be a very great sacrifice for Charley
to have to delay his marriage ; but  there
are worse misfortunes at sea even than
this.'

He was so evidently amused that Lady
Grace looked up.

Undoubtedly Cyras must be helped.
Four thousand pounds ! Why, it's nothing ;
a mere bagatelle.'

'To you it may be. Sir Everard,' retorted
Lady Grace, compressing her lips, ' but not
to others.'

'Then suppose I take it upon myself,'
he lao-hed, in a tone which might be

meant for jest or earnest. ' Charley can
keep his two thousand pounds in his own
pocket.'

Charley is in debt himself, I'm afraid,'
severely remarked Lady Grace.

'No, I am not, mother,' he answered
 quickly. ' It was all a mistake and has been
set ricyht.'

I said it must be,' cried Gertrude.

Lord Avon and Cyras entered together ;
Cyras full of merriment. He had been
enlightening the Earl upon the whole past
mystery, winding up his account with a
humorous description of his interview with
Miss Dynevor in Eaton Place. Lady Grace
spoke a few words freely, which served to
check the young man's laughter.

What ? ' he exclaimed. ' Charles is to
hand over his savings to me and defer his
marriage with Mary? No, that he shall not.
Why, you can't think I would let him do it !

I used to put upon Charley as a boy, but I
will never do so as a man. I loved him
then and I love him still.'

'Not even to help you to the partnership
and to Miss Anna Jansen ? ' laughed
Sir Everard.

'Not even for that. Not if it would
help me to every good in the world. How
on earth could it have entered anyone's
head?'

Do you remember me, Cyras ? '

Cyras did not answer in words  only
smiled, as he looked at Sir Everard. Their
hands met in a warm clasp.

'Will you accept the money from me,
Cyras ? '

From you ! '

You helped me once, though not with
money. Suffer me to help you now.'

Don't fret yourselves into fiddlestrings,
you young people,' spoke up Lord Avon in

his indifferent way from the depths of an
easy-chair. ' I Avill see to Cyras.'

Not in this instance, Avon,' said Sir
Everard, decision in his tone. ' Don't you
understand that I owe him a debt, and that
I would repay it ? '

I will take it as a loan from you,' said
Cyras, in a low tone of feeling.

All right,' laughed the baronet. ' Then
it's all settled.'

And I hope you will make it the 
in your life, Cyras,' said Lady
Grace, ' and become as steady as Charles is.'

Cyras laid down a spray of lilac he had
brought in, and spoke with emotion. 'I
promise you that it shall be so  by the
memory of my dead father.'

Very shortly after this a double wedding
took place in London ; for Gertrude Baum-garden
and Mary Dynevor were married

together. Everything went off with great
success, and Lord Avon gave Gertrude away.
Cyras remained in England for it ; he was in
high form, and insisted upon kissing not only
the brides in church, but the bridesmaids
afterwards at the breakfast. He had squared
up his accounts and would sail the following
day for New Zealand, leaving a premise
that when he came again his wife should
be with him.

The Sub-dean condescended to perform
the marriage ceremony for both parties ; and
Miss Dynevor honoured the company in a
new flaxen wig and a bird of paradise, a
very magnificent specimen which Cyras had
specially procured for her from some island
in the Southern seas with an unpronounceable
name.

CHAPTER XVII.

Camilla.

The story of Cyrilla, Dr. Maucle-Dynevor's
eldest daughter, has been left to the last, to
be told apart, for it is worth a place to itself.
Her history was far more eventful than that
of any one of her sisters ; sadness, sorrow,
and romance being mingled with it. And
the reader must be good enough to understand
that its commencement will carry us
back some years.

The clergy had assembled in the large
room called the Chapter House, making
ready to attend afternoon service in the
cathedral, that of Oldchurch. the bell

for which was ringing. Standing in the
cloisters, on either side the great doors of
the Chapter House, two bedesmen kept
guard ; looking in their black gowns not
unlike two mutes, as still and as solemn.
As the cathedral clock told the first stroke
of the hour, three, and the bell ceased and
the organ sounded, they pushed open the
doors, and, bending down their bodies in
obeisance to the clergy, turned sharply
roimd, and preceded them along the cloisters
into the cathedral. The Dean was first ;
only two prebendaries followed him. Dr.
Maude and Mr. Lane : not a great show of
the higher dignitaries would the cathedral
present that afternoon : they were in their
white robes and carried their trenchers.
Crossing the cathedral from the opposite
door, which was the grand northern entrance,
so as to meet them in the nave, came
the Bishop, marshalled by a verger, bearing

aloft this silver mace. The Bishop fell into
his place before the Dear. The procession
was next augmented by the minor canons
and choristers, and finally passed on to the
choir.

Ideas have changed of late years, but in
the days of which the earlier portion of this
story treats, the inner life of a cathedral
might be said to comprise a daily history.
The pomp would alone have constituted it.
The appellation generally applied to its
upper clergy, that of ' high dignitary,' was
indeed borne out by most of them in idea
and manner. Some few of them were
simple-hearted and Christian-minded as are
any of the good men of these later times ;
but for the most part pomp and pride
reigned  the besetting sins. Entrenched
within their high clerical position, endorsing
it with the undue and exalted view accorded
to it by the public, some of those reserved

and haughty prebendaries would scarcely
deign to acknowledge the respectful salutation
of a minor canon as they passed each
other in the street, and held it to be quite a
condescension to do so. You may be slow
to believe it now, but I am telling you truth ;
and many an aged living clergyman, attached
to a cathedral as minor canon in his younger
days, could bear ample testimony to it. Asa
rule, the prebendaries looked down on the
minor canons as though they were of a
totally inferior race of beings to themselves,
and they never associated with them in
private life. Minor canons took it all as a
matter of course ; it was a state of society
they had been reared to respect, and they
never thought of rebelling against it. At
that time the prebendaries (or canons, but
the latter name was rarely applied then to
the higher clergy) attached to Oldchurch
Cathedral numbered ten ; the minor canons

eight. ' Honorary canons '  a kind of distinction
spring up in more recent years 
were then unknown.

Proudest amid the proud Chapter of Old-church
was the Eeverend Ei chard ,
Doctor of Divinity, canon and sudden
of the cathedral A dark, stern, ugly
man, who walked with his head thrown
back, and carried his ambition in every
line of his haughty face. As he stepped
into his stall, the first on the left hand
in entering the choir, which was the stall
set apart for the Sub-dean, he held his
trencher for an instant before his face,
and then threw his glances around to see
who might be present that Sunday afternoon.
It was a dark day early in November. Quite
a cloud of dimness seemed to overhang the
choir, but the Prebendary's eyes were keen.

They rested on a row of clergymen who
were sitting in the stalls in a line with the

VOL. II. M

officiating minor canon. Five of them.
That they did not belong to the cathedral
was evident, by their not wearing surplices.
They were all young men, the eldest of them
not exceeding thirty. The one who sat next
the chanter had a pale, serious face ; its expression
good, and its smile one of remarkable
sweetness and beauty. A large open
brow was his, proclaiming its own powerful
intellect ; his hair and his pleasant eyes were
of the same shade  brown. He was the Ev.
John Hartley. Dr. Maude and other habitues
of the college knew these young clergymen to
be candidates for the vacant minor canonry.
Three of them were curates in the neighbourhood
; the other two held small livings in
the town. There was no obligation whatever
for them, as candidates, to attend the
cathedral service, but it happened that they
had all accidentally done so that Sunday
afternoon.

Underneath the Sub-dean, in the pew
appropriated to the ladies of his family, sat
his eldest daughter, Cyrilla ; a fair, attractive
girl, with blue eyes, strangely sweet and
thoughtful in their earnestness. She had
come in just before the cathedral clergy,
and, as she rose from her knees, her eyes
encountered those of the Eev. Mr. Hartley.
No salute might pass  it was neither the
time nor the place for it : but a half smile
illumined his countenance, and she blushed
vividly. Had any of the gossips around
chanced to see that blush, they might have
suspected something from it. It was a good
thing Dr. Maude did not. As was stated
earlier, the two names were rarely accorded
to Dr. Maude-Dynevor. At Old-church
he was more frequently called by
the former one : his late wife, Miss Maude,
with whom he took the name, having been
a native of the city.

h2

An excellent chanter was on duty that
week, the best chanter of all the minor
canons. As those five manor canons in
embryo  or at least, in hope  listened to
the clear tones of his ringing voice, they
trembled for their chance of success. ISTot
one among them would ever become such a
chanter as that. 'Save Hartley,' they repeated
to themselves ; ' he may.' Perhaps
Mr. Hartley was repeating the same. By
the side of Cyrilla Maude-Dynevor sat two
of her sisters, Caroline and Eegina, much
younger than herself; two others, Mary
and Grace, younger still, were in the gallery
with the governess. Not one resembled her :
they for the most part took after the sudden,
some more, some less  were dark, and
cold, and pretentious. Cyrilla and Mary
alone were fair, like their dead mother.

The service drew to a close. It was
rather prolonged that wintry afternoon, for

the anthem had been a long one : and when
the Bishop rose in his throne to give the
blessing, the shades of twilight had fallen on
the cathedral.

Under cover of the crowd pressing out,
under cover of the friendly darkness, Mr.
Hartley grasped and momentarily retained
the hand of Miss Maude-Dynevor, as they
passed through the choir gates into the
transept.

'I have had a letter from Edmund,
Cyrilla,' he whispered.

Have you ! ' she exclaimed in a tone of
delight, her sweet blue eyes raised for an
instant, and then dropped again, strangely
timid, and her face glowing. ' How is he ? '

Very well in health ; very ill in temper,'
returned Mr. Hartley, with a half smile.
'Ton remember the storms of indignation
he used to fall into ? He was in one when
he wrote.'

Oh, John ! At what ? '

At me. Never was such a thing heard
of, he protests, as for John Hartley to aspire
to a minor canonry. He '

Aspire ? ' interrupted Cyrilla.

To stoop to aspire to it, is, I believe,
what he would imply,' replied Mr. Hartley,
with a glance at Cyrilla. ' He writes in
mockery. He looks upon a minor canonry
as a death-blow to all ambitious hopes ; and
says he would as soon hear that I had got
into hot water with the Bishop, and had had
my gown threatened.'

That is so like Edmund ! But I  I do
not myself think a minor canonry is quite
the proper preferment for you,' she continued,
the glow deepening to a crimson
with her inward thoughts, and, possibly,
with the construction the words might, to
his ear, bear.

'Let us rather say, Cyrilla, it is not the

sort of preferment we were fond of carving
out for ourselves, I, and Edmund, and Tom
Chatterton, in those dear old days at Barton
Eectory. True. We were all to rise like
stars in the firmament, silk aprons being, I
verily believe, at the end of the vista.
Experience has come to us since. Tom is
wearing out his health in the West Indies,
preaching to the negroes; I am vegetating
upon a hundred a year at my curacy ; and
Edmund, the best off, has his fellowship and
his small college living. And, so far as I
am concerned, this state of things seems
likely to last for ever. A minor canonry
would be an improvement on this : I should,
at any rate, be sure of a living with it, large
or small, as may be.'

'Not large ever. Moderate, at the
best.'

Large to us curates,' he returned with a
smile.

In talking they had left the college for the
cloisters, and were close upon the door of the
Chapter House. Dr. Maude-Dynevor, who,
with his fellow-prebend and the Dean, had
been marshalled to it by the bedesmen, in
like manner that he had been marshalled
from it, came suddenly out, his surplice and
hood on still, and his trencher on his head.

A haughty recognition of Mr. Hartley's
salutation, a hard and somewhat surprised
stare at his daughter greeted them. Cyrilla
bowed her adieu to Mr. Hartley and joined
her father. They walked side by side to the
west quadrangle and entered their house by
a small door opening from the cloisters.

Where are the rest ? ' inquired the sudden,
alluding to his other daughters.

With Miss James, papa. They left by
the front entrance.'

Since Cyrilla was eighteen and had been
emancipated from the care of a governess

herself  some three or four years ago now
she had been in the habit of spending
much time at Berton Eectory. It was about
ten miles from Oldchurch. The rector, Mr.
Chatterton, was a plain, unaffected country
parson, not in the least like that eminent and
grand cathedral light, Dr. Maude-Dynevor,
or aspiring to be. The rector's wife and
the late Mrs. Maude-Dynevor were sisters,
and Cyrilla was a great favourite at the
rectory. It was much to be feared that
Cyrilla's mind, taste, and manners had been
formed after her uncle and aunt's simple
model, but her father did not suspect the
heresy yet. John Hartley had had his title to
orders at Berton ; when the year was ended, he
still remained on, Mr. Chatterton's curate.
The Sub-dean's eldest son, Edmund, who did
not resemble his pretentious father in anyway,
but had all the sweet gentleness which had
characterised his mother, as also at Berton

Eectory a great deal, reading with the son,
Tom Chatterton, both before college and
after it. All three of these young men
were at Oxford together, and a great friendship
existed between them. Cyrilla naturally
saw much of them : and why not ?
One was her brother, one her cousin, the
other  well, he was her uncle's curate. It
never would have entered the proud head of
Dr. Dynevor to suppose it possible that any
harm could accrue to his daughter from the
companionship. He would as soon have
supposed Cyrilla capable of stooping to
regard with favour her uncle's gardener, asher
uncle's son or her uncle's curate. And,
for the matter of that, had he condescended
to think about any one so inferior in the
social scale as John Hartley, Dr. Dynevor
would have assumed that Cyrilla's intercourse
with him was limited to the viewing him in
the reading-desk on Sundays.

!Not so, however. They met daily ; at
the rectory and out of it they were often
together ; and  he was attractive and so
was she. The usual consequences of such
companionship ensued, and they became to
each other all too dear. John Hartley and
Cyrilla Dynevor had fallen in love with one
another for all time.

The only one to detect it  and that not
at first  was Edmund Dynevor. He was
quite devoid of pride  it has been already
said  and he liked John Hartley better
than any other man in the world. So that,
far from seeing anything to be vexed at, he
was ready and willing to countenance the
treason, and did so.

Now, don't you two go open-mouthed
to the Canon, like geese, Hartley  you and
Cyrilla,' he suddenly spoke out one day in
his abrupt fashion. ' If you do, you'll just
get yourselves damaged for good. You will

be sent to the right about, John, and Mademoiselle
to the left. Wait. A tide comes
to every man in life, we are told, or ought
to come, and when you rise upon yours,
Hartley  and I don't think you are a man to
be buried all your life under a bushel, a fair
share of chance being given you  why, then
enlighten his Reverence. Tell him now that
you and Cyrilla would like to pull together
in the same boat !  whew ! I should not
like to stand in your shoes. Hartley, if you
did. You do not know Eichard Maude-done
vor, Dad.'

Mr. Hartley had probably entertained no
more intention of speaking to Dr. Dynevor
than of speaking to the Pope of Some :
under present circumstances he would not
have, dared to do it, and the address took
him by surprise. At least, it served to open
his eyes ; to bring matters more practically
before them. Honourable in his every vino



stint, he had not dreamt of speaking to
Cyrilla. Perhaps he had never looked into
the depths of his own heart and seen the
love hidden there. Its consciousness had
been all-sufficient for him, making his days
a heaven. He had not spoken to Cyrilla ;
he did not speak now. They tacitly understood
each other : when he should get preferment
then he would ask for her.

So the years had gone on to the present
time. Mr. Hartley was eight-and-twenty,
Cyrilla six years younger ; and the preferment
had not come. He had another
curacy now, close to Oldchurch, and he
and Cyrilla often met in society. When
Edmund was at home  he did pay it an
occasional visit  Mr. Hartley would be much
at the prebend al residence. The Canon
for the Canon  was gracious to him ;
as gracious as a high and bedizened butterfly
of the Church could be to a workings

grub of a curate. Dr. Maude could not
have regarded a man without high friends
and high interest in any other light than
condescendingly. Edmund kept counsel
and silence, and the Canon never suspected
the dreadful treason going on under his very
nose.

Eight and-twenty years of age now 
going on for thirty,' as he was wont to put
it to himself  and no sign of preferment !
Would it ever come ? John Hartley, wanting
interest, thought not. The passing years
might have seemed longer than they had
but for his love for Cyrilla. Men are vain ;
young men very vain ; young clergymen
sometimes earnest of all ; and it did appear
feasible to John Hartley that, should a lucky
living of five or six hundred a year drop
down upon him. Dr. Maude-Dyne vor might
not refuse him his eldest daughter.

But the luck and the living, I say, did

not come. Neither could he disguise from
himself that he had no more interest to get
it than had a hundred other poor curates in
the diocese of Oldchurch. Certainly he was
personally known to the Bishop ; and if he
by chance encountered that Eight Eeverend
divine, his lordship would freely nod and
say, ' How are you, Hartley ? ' He had
even been known to shake his hand. For
the Bishop was not on the high ropes, as
some of the canons were ; he was very different.
But, as to setting the young man
down for a benefice, nothing appeared to be
further from the prelate's thoughts.

During this gloomy state of affairs one
of the minor canons died, and ]\j[r. Hartley
decided to enter himself as a candidate for
the vacant place. A fatal step, so far as his
pretensions to Miss Maude-Dynevor went ;
but John Hartley, a stranger till lately to a
cathedral town, did not yet quite understand

the feeling obtaining amid the high cathedral
dignitaries. He could not have placed
a surer bar between himself and Cyrilla.
Dr. Dynevor give a daughter to a minor
canon ! The Doctor would have thought
the world was coming to an end had any
brother-prebend committed so unpardonable
an anomaly.

Edmund Dynevor, at home in cathedral
and local politics, knew this. Hence his
disapproval of the project. Feared as he
had been in the prejudices of a cathedral
life, he could but be in a degree imbued
with them, in spite of the frankness of his
nature ; and he would not like to see a
sister of his stoop to marry a minor canon.
A country clergyman with ever so small a
living, an' she would ; but not one of the
lesser clergy attached to Oldchurch Cathedral.
Neither would he like to see his
friend a minor canon for his own sake ; and

on the spur of the moment, upon hearing
the news, he wrote him a strong letter  the
one Mr. Hartley spoke of to Cyrilla in the
cathedraL

John Hartley did not, himself, see matters
in this liiht. He thought Edmund was
prejudiced. Some of the livings in the gift
of the Dean and Chapter for bestowal on
the minor canons were good ; should one of
the good ones be given to him, he fondly
thought it might lead to his union with
Cyrilla. That he should be the successful
candidate for the minor canonry he had
little doubt of, on account of his good voice
and his talent for chanting. Success or nonsuccess
depended almost entirely upon that.

VOL. II. N

CHAPTER XVIII.

IN THE MOONLIT CLOISTERS.

The day came  that of the trial for the
minor canonry  Tuesday. The time fixed
for it was, as usual in such cases, immediately
after morning prayers in the cathedral.
The Dean and prebendaries  four 
were present, several of the minor canons,
the lay-clerks and choristers  and the ordeal
began. The fie candidates did their best ;
but on the whole the 'best' was not very
good.

A sorry display made some of those
reverend aspirant chanters. What with
their nervousness, and what with their not
being fitted by nature with voice and ear.

two or three might have stood quite as
much chance had they put up for the
bishopric. One of them surreptitiously used
a tuning-fork to pitch the note. But the
Eeverend John Hartley was different. His
voice was one of the utmost melody ; it
rang into the nooks and corners of the old
college. No nervousness betrayed he ; he
knew, in his calm self-possession, that he
could do the work well, and he did it.
An admirable chanter,' remarked the Dean ;
one might think he had served his apprenticeship
to it.' The next best to him was
the Eeverend Mr. Pope. He held a small
living in Oldchurch, and had been feeing
the young chorister-boys to be at his house
three evenings a week, to practise with him.
The result in his case was passable, or would
have been deemed so, had John Hartley not
first been heard.

Of course there could be but one opinion

N 2

that the place had been earned by Mr.
Hartley ; and some whispered congratulations
were paid him. The clergy expressed
no opinion openly : that would be declared
later. As the Dean and Chapter were
leaving the cathedral to put off their robes,
they met the Bishop in the cloisters. A
bishop  it need hardly be said  has nothing
to do with the cathedral appointments;
neither is it etiquette for him to influence
them.

We have been hearing the candidates
for the minor canonry,' remarked the Dean,
who was an elderly man. ' Young Hartley
carries the palm by a long way.'

'Your lordship would be surprised to
hear him,' added Mr. Lane. ' There's not a
better chanter in the college.'

'He'll do, he'll do,' said the Bishop,
assuming that Mr. Hartley was positively
fixed upon. ' An orthodox young fellow is

Hartley ; clever too  got his head set on his
shoulders the right way.'

Cold, and still, and silent lay the old
cloisters in the moonlight. Not that much
moonlight could get at them ; but it fell
brightly on the graveyard they enclosed  on
the dank o'reen grass and the worn tomb

a

stones.

Pacing in that ghostly spot, over the flat
gravestones sunk in the cloisters, the inscriptions
on which had worn away with time, was
the Eeverend John Hartley, the light not
being sufficient to show him which were the
red bricks of the cloisters, which the grey
slabs of the dead. Do you cavil at the word,
ghostly ? Go and try it. Get yourself shut
into the cloisters at Oldchurch some night :
with the ponderous Gothic building around ;
the popular superstitions  or, associations, if
the word be liked better  connected with

the hour and place ; the ominous silence
telling upon the nerves ; the heavy bell aloft,
which every quarter booms out the flitting
time ; the dead, mouldering around and
beneath ; the snatches of moonlight, flickering
upon the white graves in the open yard,
and entering through the mullions, unglazed
casements ! Not a soul within hearing, nota
soul within call ; ghostly and grim it is
altogether.

The clock rang out the three-quarters
past five. As the echo of it died away
another sound arose, and Mr. Hartley
arrested his monotonous steps to listen. It
was what he Alas waiting for. Mr. Lane's
door opened  for that prebendal residence
had likewise a door conducting into the
cloisters, it being on the east side, or opposite
to Dr. Maude's. The door opened and shut ;
and then fleet, light footsteps were heard
coming round towards where he stood 

footsteps that John Hartley loved all too
well.

Cyrilla ! '

Softly as the word was spoken, it yet
startled her to terror : she had not caught
its familiar tones. A faint cry, and she
sprang to the wall of the narrow cloister.
Mr. Hartley caught hold of her in his reassuring,
strong protection.

Forgive me, Cyrilla. I never meant to
startle you.'

Oh, John ! What brings you here at
this hour ? I thought  I thought '

Her heart was beating violently with the
alarm, and she stopped to gather breath.
Mr. Hartley laughed.

Thought it was one of the dead-antigone
monks, come out of his sleep to molest
you ? I was in the precincts at dusk, and
saw you go into Mr. Lane's house with his
daughter. Logic whispered me that you

might probably run home through the
cloisters, in preference to going round ; and
I came in and waited, dodging the cloister-porter
when he shuffled in to lock the
gates.'

'Dodging the  why, yes! They are
shut at dusk in winter ! John, you must be
locked in ! ' she exclaimed in consternation.
How ever shall you get out ? '

I must trust to luck for it : luck has
stood my friend in worse predicaments than
this. You will stay with me five minutes ? '
he continued, placing her arm Within his,
and commencing slowly to pace the cloister.

A pause. Her heart  beating though it
was with the sense of happiness  suggested
that it was not quite the thing to do. ' Ought
you to ask it of me, John ? It would not be
right,'

Not right,' he echoed. ' Where is the
wrong ? Who would protect you from harm

as I would ? No man living. You know it,
Cyrilla.'

It is not that,' she hastily replied. ' But
oh, if anyone should come and see me
here ! '

How can they ?  with the cloisters
locked for the night I I have been trying to
see you all day, Cyrilla. I received another
letter from Edmund this morning. Did you
also get one ? '

Had that moonlight shone on them instead
of on the gravestones, Mr. Hartley
would have seen the bright blush that the
question called up on her cheeks. She
made no answer.

Did you, Cyrilla ? '

Still no reply. She walked by his
side with her head down, as if mindful of
where she placed her feet. He caused her
to take his arm.

A terrible bugbear, this minor canonry

business is to Edmund,' resumed Mr. Hartley.
He urges the bar it will be to other preferment.
And he does not  he says he does
not,' repeated Mr. Hartley pointedly  ' object
to it so strongly on the score of its own
merits or demerits, or altogether for my own
sake.'

Thump, thump, went Cyrilla's heart
against her side. She understood all perfectly
well : yet what was she to answer ?

'Therefore, Cyrilla, I determined to
appeal to you  were it possible that I could
see you in time  and ask you to decide.
Hence my waylaying you in this unceremonious,
and I fear you think unpardonable,
fashion. You may have heard the result of
the trial this morning  that I am sure of the
place : the Dean and Chapter as good as let
me know that without saying so, thanks to
my chanting. If you would prefer me not
to take it, I will go this night to the Dean,

and say that I withdraw from the competition.
Decide for me, Cyrilla.'

/ see no objection to the minor
canonry,' she replied in a low tone ; and
she spoke as she felt, for in truth Cyrilla was

humble-minded. ' Only ' She came to

a standstill.

Only that you fear it will be a
stumbling-block in the sight of Dr.
Dynevor. It is Edmund's implied argument,
Cyrilla ; I must speak plainly 
though you may deem it not generous of me
to do so, here and now. It is but a word
that I will say. You know that my whole
heart is bent upon one hope ; that I am
ever working on for its realisation ; and you
know what that hope is. There, that is all ;
I will not say another word, until I can say
it to a purpose. What shall I do about the
minor canonry ? '

I think you should accept it. Edmund

did write to me. But it is cruel of anyone
to wish you to starve on as you are doing,
on a hundred a year.'

Never mind the starving,' he interrupted.
' It is not that which troubles me.
But, years are wearing on. Some of the
minor canons hold better livings than your
uncle's at Berton ; the best of them, report
says, come up to five or six hundred a year.'

Yes ; two or three do, John ; they are
very good. And perhaps  perhaps papa
would remember that they are.'

And I could resign the minor canonry
at any time if higher preferment offered.
Do not deem me mercenary, Cyrilla, in
calculating these chances,' he continued ina
pained tone, ' or think I regard them as
the end a minister of God should work
for. But a man must live  and his wife
also.'

I would take the minor canonry, John ;

ses, I think I would, and chance it.
And '

Who goes there, pray ? '

The words, shouted out almost close to
them, were in the terrible voice  terrible to
their ears, then  of Dr. Dynevor ! He had
stayed in the Chapter House after afternoon
service to consult one of its ponderous
folios, had lighted the solitary candle kept
there, and remained, poring over the volume,
until reminded by his hunger that the
dinner hour must be at hand. He then
blew out the light and came forth. They,
those two lovers on the opposite side of the
cloisters, buried in their own affairs, their
untold love, had never heard him, their own
echoing steps had obscured the sound of his.
The Sub-dean had no idea, when, on turning
the angle, he distinguished two people pacing
together, that the intruders where  who they
were. But he called out angrily : for no

one, save the great college lights, like liirn-
self, had any business in the cloisters at that
hour.

It was a scene of confused surprise ; and
the moonlight just then was very bright.
Cyrilla, nearly fainting with dismay, would
have quitted Mr. Hartley's arm, but he did
not let her. ' Better so,' he whispered ; ' he
must hear all now.' As to the Canon, for
once in his life he was too much astonished
even to storm.

John Hartley, his tall form drawn to its
full height, briefly explained. He was a
gentleman always ; and gentlemen do not
cower, even before a sub-dean. The blame
was his, not Miss Maude-Dynevor's, he said.
He had been in the cloisters a few minutes
ago, had seen Miss Dynevor running across
them on her way home from Mr. Lane's, and
detained her. And then he entered on the
story of his love and his hopes.

'What is it that you say?' gasped the Doctor.
' That you  that you  presume '

He broke off from lack of words.

That I love her, sir. That I have loved
her ever since we were so much together at
Berton  that my most earnest prayer is, to
be worthy of her, and to win her.'

Let me pass,' panted the Canon, his
face purple and crimson, his hair standing
right on end under his trencher. ' As for
you, degenerate girl ! you may choose
between me and him.'

She burst into tears. ' Oh, papa ! I '

Sir, I have assured you that no blame
attaches to Miss Dynevor. She is perfectly
dutiful, and willing to wait '

Will you go home ? ' stamped the Doctor
to his daughter, waving off Mr. Hartley
with contemptuous scorn, overpowering his
words, shrinking from him in his hauteur
as he mio-ht have shrunk from some worthless

miscreant. ' To your home, I say, Miss
Maude-Dynevor.'

Cyrilla, sobs bursting from lier, pushed
open the door and entered. The Sub-dean
was following in her wake.

Will you not condescend to give me a
reply, sir ? ' interposed John Hartley.

A reply to you ! How dare you, fellow ?
Begone ! '

It was all the answer Dr. Dynevor
vouchsafed. He slammed the door in Mr.
Hartley's face, leaving him to his fate in the
cold cloisters. Striding along the passage
after his daughter, he caught her by the arm
and whirled her into his study.

Oh, papa ! papa ! why should you be so
angry ? ' she ventured to cry, the tears
streaming from her eyes. ' What harm has
he done ? He is of gentle birth ; he is a
learned and good man ; and he will not
always be a curate.'

Dr. Dynevor almost fought for breath.
A curate ! ' said he, in his bitter contempt.
He is going to be a minor canon ! '

Cyrilla's heart rose against the implied
contumely. ' Papa, a minor canon may rise,
he may not always remain one. Oh, sir, do
be just ! Mr. Hartley does not deserve your
displeasure ; indeed he does not.'

The Sub-dean stared at her. Cyrilla!
who had always done his bidding in meekness
!  who was the most dutiful of all his
children !  she, to beard him ! ' Possibly
you were contemplating a union with this
minor canon ? ' foamed he.

Her cheeks grew red through her tears.

Answer me.'

Had he obtained a sufficient livings, he
might have asked me to become his wife.
My doing so would have depended upon
your consent, papa.'

The Sub dean opened his mouth and

VOL. II.

closed it again ; he did not know whether to
believe his ears. 'Marry a minor canon!'
he exclaimed, in a kind of fear  for in truth
all the chords of pride within him were
jarred. ' Are you mad ? '

Papa, you need not fear,' she sobbed.
'I would not marry him without your
approbation : neither would he take me.'

'He would take my curse if he did.
And you would take it.'

Oh, do not, do not ! ' she implored in a
wailing tone, putting her hand before her
eyes. 'I can give him up without that.
Papa, did you not  understand me ? I said
that it depended only on you.'

Very well, Cyrilla ; I take you at your
word,' was the rejoinder, sternly but less
angrily expressed, after a pause of consideration.
' Let it end from this night. What is
the matter ? '

Emotion had been taking Cyrilla's

strength away. White and trembling, she
leaned against a chair for support.

You frightened me, papa  speaking of
a curse. It is a dreadful thing.'

'A father's curse is an unholy thing,'
amended the Sub-dean. ' Do not you provoke
it.'

She was leaving the room, when all the
future desolation that she now must enter
upon rose up vividly before her mind. She
turned back, her hands clasped, and speaking
slowly and softly :

There is no one else I can ever care for
in the world. Papa, is there no medium ?
Will you not say a word of hope  that, in
years to come, should preferment be his '

Preferment for him ! ' interrupted the
Sub-dean. ' Preferment for a man without
connections, without interest !  the kind of
preferment that would entitle him to aspire
to my daughter ! Is it likely that such will

o2

ever be his? You know it is not. Our
minor canons must wed in their own
sphere

A sobbing sigh caught her breath.
She knew that hope was over. ' He is '

I tell you to think no more of him,
Cyrilla,' again came the stern interruption.
Never more, under pain of  you heard the
penalty.'

I will obey you, papa ; you know I
will. I was only about to say that he is
locked up in the cloisters : the gates were
shut, he said. Will you not send a servant
to tell the porter ? '

This was the climax. Dr. Dynevor
firmly closed his lips to prevent their further
explosion, flung the door back, and pointed
to the staircase. The unhappy girl shivered
as she went slowly up it.

Looking at the matter from the sudden's
point of view, remembering the pride

and prejudice he was entrenched in roundabout,
it must be admitted that for his anger
there was much excuse to be made. He
deemed that Mr. Hartley's conduct in regard
to his daughter had been mean, dishonourable,
bad. How dared he, an obscure and
portionless curate, dream of aspiring to an
alliance with Cyrilla ? Why, even this evening,
the fellow must have put himself into
the cloisters to waylay her ! Which was
true.

Send to tell the porter, indeed ! Let
him get out as he got in ! ' spoke the sudden.


Dr. Dynevor sat down to his dinner with
a damaged appetite. Cyrilla did not appear
at it. She was the only one who took
dinner with the Canon ; her sisters dined
with the governess. When he had finished
he sat awhile, reflecting as he sipped his
wine ; then he betook himself to the

deanery, and to the houses of the canons
who were in town. He had business at
them alL

The decision as to the minor canonry
was announced on the following day, and
became patent to Oldchurch. It was conferred
upon the Eeverend William Pope,
Mea. Mr. Hartley was passed over ; his
name was not so much as mentioned. Those
not in the secret were astonished, none
more so than Mr. Pope himself.

I understood you to say that Hartley
was the best man,' observed the Bishop to
Mr. Lane, when they chanced to meet in the
street that afternoon.

So he was, in regard to chanting,' was
the canon's answer. ' But after the trial, at
the eleventh hour, in fact, Dr. Dynevor
spoke of some private objection he has to
Hartley, and put it to us, as a personal
favour to himself, not to elect him. Pope

will do very well. He will chant better
when he gets used to it.'

Now it fell out that, within an hour
after this, the Bishop encountered Mr.
Hartley, who was digesting the news of his
rejection, as well as that of another rejection,
conveyed to him in a letter from
Cyrilla. The Bishop stopped him. Steer
a pleasant prelate than he ; never one less
formal in manner, or more friendly. He
was the first, or very nearly the first, who
discarded the wig : the Episcopal bench, it
was well known, looked askance at him for
it. Some of them thought him rather ' light '
for a bishop. At a certain musical festival,
held at Oldchurch in those old days, a certain
prima donna, gay and fascinating, was
engaged to sing. The Bishop strolled in at
rehearsal, and passed an hour agreeably,
listening to the music, and chattering between
whiles to Madame. ' Of course you

will go to the ball ? ' said he, alluding to
the fete with which the festival would conclude.
'Ah, no,' responded Madame, 'I
shall have had enough of fa  tigre without
that.' ' But you ought to go,' returned his
lordship, gallantly; 'what will the ball be
without you ? ' 'I will go,' said Madame,
if your lordship will come also, and promise
to waltz with me.' No great harm, all
this : it was his lordship's way. He was
thoroughly liked by all around him. Never
a more popular prelate than was he of Old-church
: presenting an entire contrast to the
strait laced Bishop of Denham. Had it been
this one to discover those pretty syrens on
Charles Baumgarten's blotting-pad  but we
need not go into that question now.

What's this I hear. Hartley ? ' cried the
Bishop. ' How have you contrived to get
into the black books of the Dean and
Chapter?'

Mr. Hartley blushed like a lady. ' I
fancy it is with one of the Chapter only, my
lord,' he answered.

Well  what's the reason ? '

It has nothing to do with clerical affairs,
my lord. Nothing whatever to do with my
fitness, or unfitness, for the post. I offended
Dr. Maude in a private matter  and I conclude
he has not allowed me to be elected.'

A private matter ? ' debated the Bishop.
Perhaps,' he continued, noting the changing
complexion of the handsome young curate,
and remembering' that he had sometimes
seen him with Dr. Maude's daughter, and he
laughed as he spoke, ' perhaps you have
been aspiring to Miss Maude  as well as to
the minor canonry  and the Doctor does not
like it ? '

No need for John Hartley to say Yes, or
Xo ; his conscious face betrayed him. He
saw that the Bishop read the signs correctly ;

and in his pain he spoke words that he might
not otherwise have spoken.

Dr. Maude might look further for a
suitor and fare worse than in me, my lord ;
so far as a true and honest heart goes.'

So he might, Hartley, I do believe he
might. Well, I must bear you in mind for
something else  as the Dean and Chapter
have rejected you.'

I beg your lordship's pardon  I think
I shall leave the town ; go somewhere to a
distance. I do not care to remain here
now.'

The Bishop looked at him. The Bishop
was evidently pondering something in his
mind. ' I wonder,' he slowly said, ' what
sort of a tutor you would make ? You took
honours at Oxford, I think ? '

I am pleased that your lordship should
remember it.'

A friend has asked me to recommend

Mm a resident tutor for this son. Suppose
you call at the palace, and I will talk to you
further. Let me see?  come tomorrow
morning at half-past nine.'

John Hartley thanked his lordship, lifted
his hat, and the Bishop passed on. He did
not fail to attend at the palace at the appointed
time, and was kept there in long conference
by the Bishop. The result was, that
in less than a fortnight's time John Hartley
had obtained the tutorship spoken of  one
in the family of the Earl of Saxonby  and
had resigned his curacy, which he was
enabled to do at once.

It was a chilly evening. Cyrilla was
seated over the fire after dinner  which she
had taken alone, for the Sub-dean had gone
to the great audit-feast at the deanery, and
her sisters dined with the governess  and
she was shivering slightly. For the past

week or two she had been unaccountably
given to shiver. She was dwelling upon her
unhappy fate, perhaps somewhat rebelling
at it, when the door opened and Mr. Hartley
was shown in. He had come to the house
with as bold a face as the Bishop himself
might have come : but Cyrilla started up in
consternation.

I have called to take my leave of you,
Cyrilla. Your father would scarcely grudge
us so much as that.'

They shook hands ; and then she stood,
looking from him to the misty fire, misty
through her tears. ' It was wrong to come,
John,' were her first Avoids. ' I promised
never willingly to see you again ; never to
speak to you. I had to promise it.'

Never is a long day,' lie replied, standing
by her on the hearth-rug. ' If I know
anything of you, Cyrilla, you will be true tome
in your inmost heart ; you cannot help

being so  you could not, if you would.
When time and chance shall have worked
things round, and I, poor, despised and rejected
now, shall have risen to a position that
will justify my coming here to ask again for
you, even in the opinion of Dr. Dynevor 
and a conviction is within me that I shall so
rise  I mean to come. I want you, Cyrilla,
to give me the hope that I may come. It
will cheer me on my way.'

I dare not,' she whispered.

Understand me, Cyrilla. I am not asking
you to disobey your father, and engage
yourself to me. I would not ask it. This
only I say : that when I am in a position to
satisfy even him  if I ever shall be so  and
you are still unmarried, that you will cancel
the harsh note you wrote to me '

I wrote by his command,' she interrupted.


Of course ; I understand that. Cyrilla,

do you know that I have loved you above
every earthly thug ? !Not a moment of the
day for years past, but you have occupied
my thoughts ; not a dream of the night, but
you have filled it ! '

As you have mine,' she cried, wringing
her hands, and speaking freely in the moment's
anguish. ' To part from you is like
parting with life. Oh, John ! I could not say
it but for this dreadful ending.'

The tears were raining from her eyes.
John Hartley forgot himself in the moment's
anguish, and drew her head to his shoulder.

What will the world be to us without
one another, Cyrilla ? '

'Don't tempt me, John. I must be true
to my duty.'

My darling, I do not wish to tempt you.
I do not seek from you a promise to be mine ;
I do not even ask you to keep unmarried for
my sake ; I dare not in honour. What I do

ask is this  that should the favourable time
and circumstances ever come, and you be
still free, and Dr. Dynevor not then object, I
may come again and woo you ? '

I tell you that I may not she repeated
in a tone of anguish  and it seemed that she
scarcely understood him clearly ; and she
withdrew from him and stood near the
mantelpiece. ' I must forget you as I best
may. How can I disobey my father ? '

The words chilled him. ' Say you will
not.'

Her sobs nearly choked her. He would
have taken her hands again, but she waved
him off. She had ever been an obedient
daughter, and in this, her bitter trial, she
would not fail now. Mr. Hartley felt his
anger rising. Disappointment, vexation, mortified
love, rendered him unjust. In the
moment's hot haste, in his bitter trouble, he
began to think she could not truly love

him, perhaps never had loved him ; and his
face turned pale.

I ask for the last thine, Cyrilla. As you
deal vith me, so will I deal with you. Reject
my prayer, and I will strive to put your
image from my heart  as you have just
boasted to me you will strive to put me out
of yours.'

Her heart felt as though it were breaking.
She leaned against the wall by the
mantelpiece and pressed her hands upon her
bosom. But she could not press down its
pain.

I have no resource, John ; none. I
must not disobey may father.'

Fare you well then, Cyrilla,' he quietly
said. 'If ever we meet again it will be as
strangers.'

And the next moment he had gone from
the room, a bitter smile upon his hips. Gone
from her for ever ! Cyrilla buried her head

on the sofa pillows in her despair, almost
wishing she might never look up again.
And that was the manner of their parting.

And there was so much she would fain
have questioned him about  where it was
that he was going to ? what kind of place the
tutorship offered him was likely to be ? and
she had not asked it. The following day he
had left the town.

Oldchurch took up the notion that the
Eeverend John Hartley quitted the place in
mortification at his non-success as to the
minor canonry. A few weeks, and he was
quite forgotten.

VOL. II.

CHAPTER XIX.

THE NEW DEAN.

Ten years ! What a slice it seems to take
out of the history of a heel Ten weary
years!  and the heart preying upon itself,
its sorrows, and its blighted hopes, all that
long while !  Cyrilla's heart.

Ten years ! For in this last chapter or
two we have been telling of the past ; now
we have, so to say, come again to the
present. It is not so very long since Mary
Dynevor was married to Charles Baumgar-
ten; her two sisters Eegina and Grace are
also married.

It was Thursday afternoon, and the cathedral
bell was ringing for service ; a few

stragglers, half-a-dozen at the most, came
leisurely towards the cloisters. Oldchurch
is never very full in October of the prebendal
families.

Pacing what was called the Green Walk
a convenient promenade hard by, near the
deanery and the ji'bendal houses  was a
fair, attractive-looking woman, with a sweet,
sad face. The smooth, open brow was indented
with two upright middle hues, that
unmistakable sign of care; they had not
used to be there ; and the blue eyes wore an
expression that told their owner lived much
in the inward life. She was but a year or
two past thirty ; she did not look more ;
nevertheless her hair began to be streaked
with silver. It was Cyrilla. Ten years
have passed over her head since that great
trouble fell upon her ; and ten years make
a change.

There were other changes, too, at Old-church.

The pleasant Bishop had passed
away. He had been translated, not to a
better appointment ; not to be Primate of
all England, or even to one of the three
desirable sees, but to a land where mitres
are not. Bishops, for the most part, live to
a good old age ; he of Oldchurch had died
young  comparing him with some of those
very ancient ones, who seem to last out
for ever. The ultra grave men of the
Prelates' Bench had turned upon him rather
the cold shoulder, royal favourite though
he was. But he was gone, and another
filled his place ; an austere man, dio
gave a frown where the late Bishop had
given a smile, and who looked sharply
after the loaves and fishes. Oldcliurch
did not think it had gained by the
change.

The Dean, old and ailing long ago, lived
yet ; but the great change for him wcs

approaching ; in fact, his death was looked
for almost daily. Two of the prebendaries
had also passed away ; one had been removed
to a deanery : and their stalls were
filled up by others. Dr. Maude-Dyne vor,
proud and pompous, had latterly found his
office of sub-dean no sinecure from the
incapacity of the Dean. In fact, he almost
began to fancy himself dean in reality. Two
or three of the old minor canons had likewise
dropped off. Mr. Pope had become a very
good chanter, and was sacristy to the cathedral.
Which naturally brings us to John
Hartley.

There was the greatest change ! Sure,
none had risen in the social scale as he.
Some such examples are not Wanting ; as
those who keep their eyes upon the moves of
the clerical chess-table well know. The
tutorship, procured for him by the ready
kindness and influence of the late Bishop,

was in the family of the Earl of Saxonby, a
Cabinet minister and shining star in the
political horizon. The Earl had a great
many daughters, and only one son, Viscount
Wexford. Daughter after daughter had
been born, until the Earl and Countess
despaired of a son ; so that when he did
arrive he was made much of. A wayward
boy in his twelfth year, when Mr. Hartley
was engaged, whose duty it was to prepare
him for Eton. Mr. Hartley was regarded asa
gentleman in the Earl's family, was treated
as one of themselves ; and when the Earl's
chaplain was inducted to something better,
he was appointed chaplain in his place. His
rise then was rapid. Perhaps it might not
have been quite so much so but for Lady
Charlotte Saxonby. She contrived to fall in
love with Mr. Hartley ; and he  if he did
not love her as he had once loved Cyrilla
Dynevor  liked her very much. The Earl

sanctioned the match. When a man, peer
though he may be, has six girls upon his
hands, the settlement of one of them with a
young clergyman, whose preferment he can
take care of, is not to be despised. Five
years subsequent to the period of his leaving
Oldchurch, the Eeverend John Hartley
was enjoying a living of twelve hundred
a year and a stall in a cathedral. ISTot
only that. His name stood high in public
fame as one of the cleverest men of
the day ; a sound divine, and most able
preacher.

What thought Dr. Maude-Dynevor then ?
The man he had so despised had risen in this
short time to be a canon like himself. If by
chance they met in the world now, they
would meet on equal ground ; divines of the
same social standing. He who had been
rejected for Cyrilla with so much unseemly
and unnecessary contempt, had been welcomed

for the Lady Charlotte Saxony.
And poor Cyrilla? She could only hear,
and bear in silence; but it had lined her
brow and silvered her hair. Her father may
have felt a qualm when he gazed on her
pale sad face ; if so, he did not let it
appear ; but he growled angrily at her when
she rejected an offer of marriage. It was
a very eligible offer ; but Cyrilla meekly
declined it.

Her time was spent in various duties :
in superintending her younger sisters when
Aunt Ann was not with them, or in taking
care of her invalid aunt at Berton Eectory.
One season she spent at Eaton Place, when
she was presented ; but London gaiety
rather jarred upon her : the heart was not
in tune with it.

The younger ones were all married now.
Cyrilla was the only one left. ' That old
maid, Cyrilla,' the daughters in the precincts,

who had been children when she was
a girl of twenty, called her now. She
seemed to have outlived her companions ;
they had married, and were dispersed in the
world. Mary Lane, her chief friend, had
gone too. Younger sisters had sprung up ;
but they and Cyrilla seemed to have no
sympathy, nothing in common the one with
the other.

The second girl, Caroline, had married
very young ; it was just after Mr. Hartley
quitted Oldchurch, when she was scarcely
out of the schoolroom ; a marriage quite
after the Sub-dean's own heart. The bridegroom
was a colonel, thirty years at least
older than his bride ; but he made a good
settlement on her, and he was a K.C.B.
He carried her off to India, and soon rose
to be a general. Lady Hume was at home
now, paying a long visit to her father, with
her three children ; a gay, dashing, scornful

woman, who put upon Cyrilla, and turned
the care of her children over to her. Sir
Thomas was fighting in India. Personal
happiness denied her, Cyrilla was trying
to make her own unselfish happiness in
caring for others. She engaged in works of
benevolence, of usefulness. Did any old
bedesman, or his poor old wife, fall sick,
they found a true friend in Miss Dynevor.
When other ladies of the precincts were
wasting their time in that utter waste of all
wastes, morning visits, Cyrilla would be paying
visits too. But they were visits of a different
nature. The image of John Hartley
was often present to her. When one has
loved as Cyrilla had, the beloved one is not
easily displaced from the heart ; though she
only thought of him as one utterly lost to
her, whom she should never again see in
this world. She pictured to herself his
happy life with his wife ; and a sore feeling

would now and then intrude, for lie could
not help thinking that in the blaze of his
new fortunes he might have sought her
again instead of Lady Charlotte Saxonby.
Things with John Hartley were not, however,
quite so bright as Cyrilla's fancy
pictured.

What a blessing this life would be if we
could keep from it sickness, and care, and
sorrow ! Trouble came in its most ominous
guise to Lady Charlotte Hartley. After the
birth of her little girl she never grew strong ;
and symptoms of consumption supervened.
Dr. Hartley  he had taken his degree ; some
honorary post having been conferred upon
him at Oxford, which necessitated it  obtained
leave from his bishop, and accompanied
his wife to a warmer climate in the
Pyrenees, to which she had been ordered.
Dr. Hartley came back alone : his wife was
left in her foreign grave. He had been

at home some eighteen months now, chiefly
residing in his prebendal house at the distant
cathedral town.

The bell was going for service, and
Cyrilla paced the Green Walk. Lady
Hume's troublesome children were running
and racing, making a great noise ; the
yellow leaves of the elm-trees fell about her,
in the autumn wind and weather. Cyrilla's
eyes were raised frequently to the windows
of the house nearest her ; that of Mr. Lane.
Mary Lane  Mrs. Wilkinson by her new
title  had arrived at home the previous day,
and Cyrilla was wishing she would come
out. Her husband was H.B.M. consul,
somewhere in the south of France, and
Mary had come to England for a short
visit.

Are you going to service this afternoon,
Cyrilla ? '

Cyrilla turned at the sharp question 

which came from her sister, Lady Omne : a
tall imperious woman, dressed in rare satins
and gold bracelets. Throw a surplice over
her, and put her hair under a trencher, and
she might have been taken for a photograph
of Dr. Maude-Dynevor himself, even to the
sharp, perky nose.

No,' replied Cyrilla, ' I have to take
care of the children.'

Where's the nurse ? ' asked Lady
Hume.

Her cold is so much worse this afternoon
that I told her to lie down.'

'I declare you are growing quite absurd,
Cyrilla ! ' flashed Lady Hume. ' As if
servants want to he down ! or should be
allowed to if they do ! '

Do not let it trouble you, Caroline : I
will take care of the children.'

Lady Hume sailed away : some freak
had induced her to attend service that afternoon,

but lie rarely did so on week days.
The bell ceased, and the deadened notes of
the organ might be faintly distinguished.
They were very tiresome, these spoilt children,
but Cyrilla knew that they would be
worse indoors, and she walked about with
them for nearly an hour. At length Mary
Wilkinson saw her, and came out. They
sat down on one of the benches, and the
children ran about the grass, quarrelling
and picking weeds.

Does it not seem like old times for you
and me to be seated here, watching the
noisy crows, and hearing the organ strike
up ? ' began Mrs. Wilkinson.

'I wish you could be always here,
Mary,' was the answer.

How is it you do not marry ? ' was
Mary Wilkinson's abrupt rejoinder. 'I
thought you of all earls would have married
well.'

A faint colour tinged Cyrilla's cheek.
Emotion upon that subject had well-nigh
died away. 'Some girls are destined to
marry and some are not,' she said with a
sad smile. ' I suppose I am one of the
latter.'

Nonsense ! you will marry yet.'

Never,' replied Cyrilla, more vehemently
than the subject might seem to warrant.
' I shall never marry.'

Never is a long day,' laughed Mrs. Wilkinson
: and Cyrilla's remembrance went
back. They were the very words said to herby
John Hartley in their last interview,
when he had quitted her in anger. How
many a time since had it been in Cyrilla's
thoughts  Had she allowed him the hope
he craved, would he have come to claim
her ?

Do you remember John Hartley ? ' suddenly
asked Mrs. "Wilkinson. And the question

was so very apposite to what was just
then passing in Cyrilla's mind that it struck
her into silence.

'The young curate who was at Berton
once, and afterwards tried for a minor
canonry,' proceeded Mrs. Wilkinson, supposing
Cyrilla's memory needed to be refreshed,
and never noticing the vivid blush on the
fair cheeks.

Yes, I do remember him,' was the quiet
answer.

I saw a good deal of him and his wife
abroad. Poor Lady Charlotte, a delicate,
interesting woman, was in a consumption
when they came. Dr. Hartley told me that
he brought her quite as a forlorn hope.
How quickly he rose ! ' added Mary Wilkinson,
after a pause. ' Only picture it, Cyrilla !
the position he holds now, and his trying fora
humble minor canonry not so many years
ago ! " There is a tide in the affairs of

man : " lie must have taken his at flood-time,
if anyone ever did.'

Cyrilla did not speak.
'It was a sad pity about his wife.'
Did you like Lady Charlotte ? ' was the
low rejoinder.

It was impossible not to like her. She
was aware how little hope remained, and
the prospect of leaving her husband and
child was a constant grief to her. She lingered
nearly a twelvemonth after they came
out. She has been dead  oh, going on for
two years now.'

Was he much altered  Mr. Hartley ? '
Dr. Hartley, Cyrilla,' laughed Mrs. Wilkinson
; ' don't forget his honours. Very
little altered indeed. Just the same free, unaffected
man that he was as a curate. He
asked me if I recollected his rejection for
the minor canonry at Oldchurch by the Dean
and Chapter. Lady Charlotte made him

VOL. II. Q

tell her the story. I remember his saying,
Ah, Charlotte, had I been successful then I
should never have married you." '

Service is over ; they are coming out of
college,' interrupted Cyrilla.

So they were  by stragglers, as they
went into it. Lady Hume stalked up to them.

We were talking of Dr. Hartley,' Mrs.
Wilkinson remarked to her. ' How strangely
he has got on ! But it is of course owing to
his marriage, and to his father-in-law. Lord
Saxonby.'

Cyrilla's old flame,' returned Lady
Hume.

Caroline ! ' remonstrated Cyrilla, with a
burning face.

Mary Wilkinson looked at them ; at the
one, and at the other. Cyrilla's confused
look puzzled her. ' You do not mean to
say there was ever anything between him
and Cyrilla ! ' she impulsively uttered.

Something there undoubtedly was,' said
Caroline Hume. 'I cannot tell you what.
I fancy there would have been more, but
that papa discovered it.'

If there was anything, why did he not
come back and claim Cyrilla when he could
do it ? ' cried Mrs. Wilkinson. ' Why have
married Charlotte Saxonby ? '

She, Cyrilla, escaped to the screaming
children. Lady Hume, replying to the question,
threw back her head, very much after
the manner of the Sub-dean.

He would not have dared to come. A
man who aspired to be one of our minor
canons, had tried for the post, would never
have the assurance really to offer himself to
a canon's daughter.'

Oh, Caroline ! that's just like you ! '
laughed Mary Wilkinson. ' I would not be
as proud as you for the world. Hark I '

The cathedral death-bell struck out, and

q2

went booming over the city. Three times
three, and some quick strokes after it in
succession ; betokening that a soul had just
passed to its account. It was not a familiar
sound, for that bell did not condescend to toll
for ordinary mortals ; and the three ladies
stood transfixed.

The passing-bell ! ' exclaimed Cyrilla,
scarcely above her breath. ' It  I fear  it
must be for the Dean ! '

With one accord they turned their eyes
on the Deanery windows. The blinds were
being drawn down : little need to inquire
further. But at that moment the senior
sexton was emerging from the cloisters, and
they made a sign to him. He came up,
touching his hat.

Yes, ladies, it is tolling for the Dean.
He died ten minutes ago.'

Never, sure, was commotion known in

any staid cathedral like unto that which
suddenly burst on Oldchurch ! The news,
startling it to its centre, came to it one
morning some two or three weeks subsequent
to the death of the Dean.

He, poor old man, had been buried withall
honours, many of the canons coming to
Oldchurch to attend the funeral. Once
under the ground he was of course forgotten,
according to the custom of this world, and
Oldchurch, especially its clergy, busied itself
with speculations as to his successor. Le roi
est mo7% vive le roi 1

The fortunate man was generally expected
to be Dr. Maude-Dynevor. Dr.
Dynevor himself entertained no doubt whatever
on the point. Albeit scarcely usual to
raise a canon of a cathedral to be its dean,
there were reasons for believing it would be
done in this instance. Dr. Dynevor looked
upon the post as already his ; and he held

up his head higher than before (if that could
well be), and hardly allowed his buckled
shoes to touch the ground as he trod Old-church
streets. ' Dean Maude-Dynevor ! '
he fondly repeated over to himself again and
again ; and the sound was as the sweetest
incense to his soul.

Has the appointment come ? ' asked
Mr. Lane, abruptly breaking in upon the
Doctor one evening with the question, as he
sat over his wine after dinner. ' Have you
received it ? '

No ; not yet,' replied the Doctor
eagerly. ' Why P '

I've just seen it in one of the evening
papers. It states that the appointment is
made ; but no name is mentioned.'

It's on its way, no doubt,' said Dr.
Dynevor ; ' those papers always get hold of
things first. Sit down, Lane, and take some
wine. We shall have news in the morning.'

The Doctor was rio-ht. News came in

o

by the morning post. The new Dean was
named. But it was not Dr. Dynevor that
the Chapter of Oldchurch was recommended
to elect as its head; it was John Hartley,
Dad.

You cannot wonder at the commotion 
at the commotion that ensued in the Chapter
House, or at the internal commotion which
racked the mind and fizzed in the brain of
Dr. Dynevor. It was more than a morning's
wonder.

But the Chapter had no thought of
rebelling against the mandate. Dr. Hartley
was not a man to be despised for his own
sake, and he had a powerful friend in that
great personage the Earl of Saxonby, who
could make deans with a movement of his
little finger. John Hartley stood high amidst
the clergy ; he had made the world respect
him ; and the Chapter of Oldchurch Cathedral

generally regarded the appointment with
complacency ; looking upon that little interlude
of his putting up for a subordinate post
under them, some ten years before, as a sort
of romance in life's history, which need not
be remembered. But Eichard Dynevor ? In
the first place, he was grievously disappointed.
Had even the Archbishop of Canterbury
chosen to constitute himself Dean of
Oldchurch, were such a thing possible, Dr.
Dynevor would have resented it as a personal
grievance. In the second place a canon
likes to stand well with his Dean. But how
would his new Dean regard him?  how
would he resent the contempt, the scorn,
once lavished upon him with unnecessary
bitterness? Take it for all in all, Eichard
Dynevor was not in a state of merriment.

Cyrilla lead gone forth that morning to
see the sick old mother of one of the vergers.
The verger, returning to his home after

morning service, met Cyrilla as she was
quitting it.

So the new Dean is coming at last,
ma'am ! ' he said, when his bow was
over.

The new Dean ! ' echoed Cyrilla, somewhat
startled, for she had been aware of the
expectations of her father.

The news, ma'am, has took everybody
by surprise,' said the man. ' We should
have made a guess at anybody rather than
him. He is not strange to the college 
though he never thought to be Dean of it,
I'll answer foret. I mind him well, Miss
Dynevor ; especially when we were going to
have him for one of the minor canons, and
did not, after all ! '

Who is it ? ' asked the wondering
Cyril.

It's Dr. Hartley, ma'am ; young Hartley,
as we'd used to call him then. If he's

only half as pleasant now, he'll be the most
popular dean Oldchiirch has ever known.
There's a dozen women, pretty well, clearing
out the Deanery, for fear it should not be
ready for him

The man talked on, but Cyrilla heard
him not. John Hartley coming there as
Dean!

It was even so. Verily, as the canons
said to one another, it was more like a
romance than an episode of real life.

Dr. Hartley arrived at Oldchurch in due
course, the Deanery having been made ready
for his reception. He came on a Saturday
evening, too late for any of the clergy to
see him that night. All the ten prebendaries
were at Oldchurch ; having assembled not
only to elect and welcome their new Dean,
but because it was the time of the November
audit. Even the Oxford prebend had comedown
 a rare occurrence. It was understood

that the Dean would read himself in at
morning service, and the cathedral was
crowded as it had rarely been.

Once more, as connected with this little
history, the bedesmen stood at the Chapter
door ; once more they bent their bodies in
reverence as the clergy came forth into the
cloisters. He was at their head, John Hartley,
wearing his white robes and the scarlet
badge of a doctor of divinity ; carrying his
trencher in his hand, and a small roll of
paper or parchment. Cyrilla was in her
pew. But for the greatest effort she must
have burst into hysterical tears as the white-robed
procession came on and entered the
choir, marshalled by the vergers and bedews
: the lay-clerks, the college boys, the
minor canons, the prebendaries, the new
Dean, and the Bishop, who happened to be at
Oldchurch. The congregation stood up ; the
organ pealed forth the strains of the Hallelujah

Chorus. Upon reaching the Dean's
stall, the Bishop turned half round and bowed
his head, perhaps to indicate to its new
occupant that it was his  as if John Hartley
did not know it !  and then passed on to his
throne. The canons stood round, waiting
while he stepped into it  he, John Hartley !
All this pomp and ceremony for him !
Cyrilla glanced at him. Some lines of silver
streaked his hair, but his face had not much
changed. He appeared to look taller ; certainly
he was more noble and commanding.
In the pew underneath him sat a lady of
some forty years. It was understood to be
Lady Elizabeth Saxonby, the eldest sister of
his late wife. She had been much with him
since that lady's death, for the sake of the
little motherless girl.

There was no chanting that memorable
day. The Dean read the prayers and lessons.
A sonorous voice was his. And when the

prayers were over, he unrolled the parchment,
and read out his title and his appointment.
'I, John Hartley, doctor of divinity,'
&c. &c. Did he call to mind the time when
he had sat by the minor canons, aspiring only
to be made one of them ? Ay, that he did ;
and so did Dr. Dynevor. Next he went to
the Communion-table, preceded by those
bowing bedesmen, six of them, and followed
by Dr. Dynevor and Mr. Pope ; taking his
own place at its head, and reading the
Commandments. Yes, from that day forward,
he, John Hartley, was the head and
master of Old church Cathedral. He did not
preach ; it was not his place that day to do
so ; it was Dr. Dynevor's. And the Doctor,
swallowing his mortification, and eating
humble-pie, gave a very good doctrinal
sermon. But for the unfortunate fact that
he was taking his close residence of one and
twenty days, the Doctor might possibly have

had a cold that Sunday, and stayed away
from service. He had decided, however, to
put a good face on the matter, and welcome
the new Dean. It would never have done tolet
his resentment appear.

Are you friendly with the Dean, papa ?'
Lady Hume inquired of her father that
night. Cyrilla would not have dared to
ask it.

Friendly ? ' retorted the Doctor in a
lofty tone of surprise, as if he had always
been on terms of brotherly love with John
Hartley  for if he did have to eat humble-pie
the world was not to see it go down.
What should hinder it, pray ? The Dean
was remarkably cordial to-day, and inquired
particularly after the health and welfare of
my family.' The plain fact of the matter
being that the Dean, when in the Chapter
House, had been as polite to him as he was
to the Chapter generally. He certainly did

say, * I hope your family are well, Dr.
Dynevor.'

'You and Cyrilla must call on Lady
Elizabeth tomorrow,' went on the Doctor.

Cyrilla lifted her eyes with a start. ' /
call, papa ! '

The canon gave her one of his haughty
stares. ' Of course. I cannot allow my
family to be wanting in courtesy to that of
Lord Saxonby.'

Cyrilla, however, did not go. Delicately
sensitive and refined, she shrank from the
bare idea of meeting the Dean incidentally ;
how, then, could she go, boldfaced, to his
house? Lady Hume proceeded thither
alone in state in the father's carriage, in her
satins and her bracelets, doing duty for the
family collectively. A coldly imperious
woman looked she ; and Lady Elizabeth
found her to be so.

'You would like her sister better,* remarked

Mrs. Wilkinson, who had come m
as Lady Hume was departing  for the
Deanery was besieged that day ; the Dean
was a free man, remember. ' No two
sisters can well be more unlike than are
Lady Hume and Miss Maude-Dynevor.'

Oh, poor thing, she is quiet to a fault,
is Cyrilla Dynevor,' said a young lady, who
was sitting there, the late archdeacon's
daughter. ' A regular old maid ; goes about
amongst the poor, and all that.'

And takes care of her sister's children,
who won't take care of them for herself, and
is all that is good and loving to everybody,'
spoke up Mary Wilkinson, angry at the disparagement
of Cyrilla. ' Do you remember
Cyrilla ? ' she added, turning to the Dean,
who was present.

'Yes. Oh yes, I remember her,' was
the impassive answer, delivered in a most
impassive tone.

I observed a lady sitting in the pew
with Lady Hume yesterday ; perhaps that
was Miss Dynevor ? ' remarked Lady Elizabeth.
' A sweet-looking woman, with an
expression of sadness in her face. One
might fancy that some great care or sorrow
had passed over her, and left its traces
there.'

'That was Cyrilla,' cried the archdeacon's
daughter. ' As to care, I don't know
what care she can have  unless it is that
she's not married.'

That Cyrilla is not married is her own
fault,' said Mrs. Wilkinson. ' She might
have had young Leader. He is Sir Charles
now. He asked her twice over, and made
no secret of it.'

She may marry yet,' observed Lady
Elizabeth.

It is scarcely likely,' returned the young

VOL. 11. E

lady. ' Why, she must be two-and-thirty !
nobody would ask her.'

I add several years on to thirty, and
sometimes I think my chance may not begone
yet,' laughed Lady Elizabeth good-humouredly.
And the archdeacon's daughter
blushed to her fingers' ends ; she had made
a mistake in her good manners.

The precincts were up in arms. The
Dean of Oldchurch was about to hold an
evening reception, and the cards for it had
gone out but charily. Those who received
them were wild with delight ; those who did
not get them were wild with anger. The
forgotten ones this time would be remembered
another, but that did not soften
present wounds.

Cards had come to Dr. Maude-Dynevor's
for Dr. Maude-Dynevor, for Lady Hume,
and for Miss Maude-Dynevor. 'Do you

go, Camilla ? ' asked the Doctor with indifference.


'Yes, papa,' was the quiet answer. 'I
must get over the first meeting with him',
thought Cyrilla to herself. ' As well do it
now as later.'

The evening came. Lady Hume was
gorgeous in black velvet and pearls ; Cyrilla
simple in white crape  for they were in
slight mourning ; the Doctor wore silver
buckles in his shoes and breeches, and was
as polished as a doctor of divinity can be.
The Dean came forward cordially.

Once more his pleasant tones sounded on
Cyrilla's ear in friendly greeting ; once more
the tips of her white-gloved fingers were
within his. What she answered she never
knew. Her very lips were white, her tongue
was half paralysed; all she felt was that
she made herself a simpleton and that he
must have seen she did. Taking refuge in

b2

the quietest corner to be found, she had a
dreadful recollection of having called him
'Mr. Hartley,' and then mending it with
Dr. Dean.'

The Dean's young daughter was in the
room ; a fair child between three and four
years old. She released herself from a lady
who was holding her prisoner, and ran upto
Cyrilla.

What is your name ? ' inquired Cyrilla.

Charlotte. Where are the little girls ? '

Little girls ? ' repeated Cyrilla, not
understanding.

Those little girls that played with mein
the Green Walk this afternoon. They
played with me after you went into the
house.'

Did they ? ' said Cyrilla. ' They are in
bed now. They will play with you another
time.'

Papa said I ought to be in bed. But

Aunt Elizabeth said I should come in first.
She '

Are you making acquaintance with my
little girl, Miss Dynevor ? '

The speaker was the Dean. Cyrilla
collected her senses, and answered as she
might have answered any other dean.

She is making acquaintance with me
rather, I think. It appears she recognised
me as belonging to my little nieces, and
came to inquire after them. I tell her they
are in bed.'

'Ah! like good children. You hear,
Charlotte ? '

Charlotte flew away  possibly lest the
mandate should be issued for her.

How very little Oldchurch is altered ! '
resumed the Dean.

'Not much.'

You have lost all your sisters, I believe.'

Yes ; they are all married. Some are

in one place, some in another. Eegina is in
India. She went out to Lady Hume, and
married there.'

Are they well at Berton Eectory ? '

Quite well, thank you. My uncle met
with an accident, a bad fall, and has never
been the same active man since. My aunt
is feeble.'

I shall go over and see them some day.
Are you often there ? '

Not as I used to be. Papa seems not
to care to be much alone, so I stay at home
with him.'

And your brother Edmund ? All your
brothers ? '

They are all well, thank you. Edmund
paid us a visit in the summer.'

A few more sentences passed, coldly
polite as these were, and the Dean moved
away. Cyrilla did not come into contact
with him again. ' I am glad it is over,' she

thought, as she left the Deanery. ' It was
only the first meeting I dreaded.'

Twilight was on the earth the following
evening ; twilight, almost darkness, lay on
the cloisters. Cyrilla, who had gone in to
sit with Mary Wilkinson for ten minutes,
and had sat an hour and ten, came hastily
out at Mr. Lane's cloister door, as being
the nearest way home. She sped along
the south side, and in turning the corner
into the west ran right against  the
Dean.

Oh, I  I  leg your pardon,' panted
Cyrilla, when the darkness allowed her to
discover who it was. And she would have
darted as speedily away, but the Dean's
detaining hand was laid upon her. He had
a right to know who had thus unceremoniously
flown against him.

Is it you, Cyrilla ? '

Indeed I beg your pardon, Dr. Hartley.

I was running home from Mr. Lane's.
I never heard your steps.'

There were no steps to hear,' said the
Dean. ' In passing through the cloisters I
had haled, and was looking over into the
graveyard. Upon hearing your footsteps I
turned away, and you came against me.'

I am very sorry ; indeed I am. Please
to let me go.'

'Presently,' he answered, retaining his
hold. 'Have you forgotten the evening
when you and I stood here before  ten
years ago ? '

Had she forgotten it ! She did not
speak, but he might have heard her heart
beat.

Cyrilla, how is it to be ? Shall the old
feelings be renewed ?  or are we to remain
strangers, playing false before the world and
with each other ? '

She burst into a flood of distressing

tears. ' Oh ! do not mock me ! I have
suffered enoiidi without that.'

What do you mean, Cyrilla ? Mock
you I You, who have lain enshrined in my
heart, as its most sacred treasure, all these
years ; though not awakened from it into
life ! And  unless I am entirely mistaken 
as I have lain in yours.'

She cried still ; more softly. He drew
her nearer to him with his all-protecting
arm.

Will you come home to me, and be my
little girl's mother ? '

It could not be,' she sobbed. ' I am
not fit now. What would the world say ? '

Say !  the world ! ' he uttered. ' Not
fit ! Why are you not fit ? '

I am more than thirty years old, and
my hair is going grey,' she meekly answered.
' It would say you shoukl choose
one younger and fairer.'

I am thirty-eight,' laughed the Dean,
'and my hair is greyer than yours. Oh,
Cyrilla ! unselfish as ever ! Do you know,
my darling, that were your hair white and
your years threescore, I would rather wed
you than all the younger and fairer ones in
the world ? '

She no longer essayed to draw away
from him ; she stole her hand into his, and
laid her face upon his shoulder : and the
Dean  dean though he was  took from it
what kisses he pleased.

I must go now,' she softly whispered.
I must indeed.'

When I choose to let you. You are a
prisoner in my own domains, Miss Dynevor.
The cloisters belong to me now, please to
remember, and I shall not release you until
I think fit. They were not mine, exactly,
that other night.'

How did you get out that night ? '

I did not get out. I remained in them
until morning.'

Oh, John ! '

I did. Ah, Cyrilla ! I have undergone
more for the love of you than you may
think for. You ought to recompense me.'

How shall I be able to tell papa ? ' she
whispered.

'Don't tell him,' said the Dean, laughing;
leave it to me.'

' Do you know, I cannot think of you as
the Dean of Oldchurch,' resumed Cyrilla, as
they walked arm-in-arm towards the Canon's
door. ' You have seemed to me ever since
you came as the plain John Hartley of old,
except when I see you marching into college
at the head of them all. And then I can
scarcely believe it.'

I may be the Dean to the world ; to
you I am John Hartley. Cyrilla, cast your
thoughts back to the night we parted. Adhere

is the difference between the promise I
wished you to give me and the actual facts,
as they have turned out? I asked you tolet
me win you when I became grand enough
for Dr. Dynevor ; and I have done so.'

A thousand times have I repented not
giving you the promise,' she impulsively
rejoined, her eyelashes again becoming wet.
'It seemed, in these later years, as though
I had brought all my misery upon myself. I
think it is that, John, which has silvered my
hair.'

He wrung her hand, waited to see her
enter, and turned off to the Deanery.

I suppose you will not refuse Cyrilla tome
now. Dr. Dynevor,' cried the Dean the
following day  which was the way that he,
without preparation or circumlocution, entered
upon the matter. 'She is willing to
become my wife, subject to your approval.'

Dr. Dynevor Alas taken utterly by surprise.

Never for a moment had he believed
the Dean would renew his attentions to
Cyrilla. His face turned scarlet, and he
bent nearly as low as the old bedesmen ;
muttering words of ' the honour conferred
upon his daughter by Mr. Dean.'

Mr. Dean laughed outright  and could
not help it. He was thinking of the strange
changes that occur on the stase of life.

So very shortly there was another wedding,
which took the last of Dr. 's
daughters from him. Aunt Ann
came down with the intention of presiding
at the breakfast, bringing with her the gorgeous
bird of paradise, which she kept laid
up as a prize-adornment for state ceremonies,
Cyras's present  Cyras, who had
now settled down at Wellington with a wife
and a house, and was altogether flourishing.

Another 2[uest came with Aunt Ann to

Oldchurch, specially invited by Dr. Dynevor,
Lady Grace Baumgarten  Lady Grace, who
was with us at the first page of this history
as she is at the last ; the same fair, fascinating,
graceful woman, ever welcome to all
with whom she came into contact.

But, after all, Aunt Ann found there was
to be no state breakfast for herself and the
bird of paradise to preside at, for the Dean
and Cyrilla preferred their wedding to be
without form and show. They were quietly
married before morning prayers in the cathedral
on New Year's Day, with just half-a-dozen
close friends as witnesses, and then
departed for Avon House, which had been
offered to them by Lord Avon.

A week or two's stay there only, and
they returned to the Deanery. Cyrilla, with
a thankful, loving spirit, entered upon her
new home under the sheltering care of one
who would ever o-uide and love her. And

the demoiselles of the precincts  not one of
whom but had cast a hope on her own
account to the new and attractive Dean 
did wonder greatly at the change apparent
in her. For, if Cyrilla Dynevor had looked
worn and sad enough for an old maid,
Cyrilla Hartley looked fresh and young,
as though no wife had ever been so happy.

And thus we leave all our friends at
peace.

FROM A RECORD OF THE PAST

VOL. ir.

In the year 1833 a handsome young lad
of seventeen, whom it will not do to call
here by his full name, went out to India asa
cadet. It is his career  and it was buta
short one  that is about to be told. He
was a high-spite, noble boy, though wild,
thoughtless, and everlastingly in scrapes ;
and had caused his guardians no end of
trouble and expense. But they could not

help admiring the lad with all his faults ;
and his mother, while she would call him
her unlucky boy, called lira likewise her
darling Harry. Henry Lynn was the name
given him in baptism ; there's no necessity
to suppress that. He was the younger of
two sons ; and a profitable living, in the
gift of the family, was destined for lira.
So, by way of preparation, the child, at nine
years old, was sent to Dr. Bringemon's great
academy in London, where he picked up
notions quite at variance with those of his
sober father and mother. At twelve years
old he had fallen in love with a soldier's
coat, and told his sisters privately that they
should never make a parson of him. At
fourteen, ere the mourning he wore for his
father was soiled, he wrote word home that
he would be a captain in India. He was
sent for to the Hall. His mother cried, his
guardians talked of a birch-rod, but Master

Harry held to his own will. He lavished
love upon his mother, but he laughingly
defied his guardians ; and the upshot of the

business was that Henry Lynn G was

posted as a gentleman-cadet, and at seventeen
set sail for India.

It would seem that he liked the life he
found there, for some five or six years afterwards,
when, by the death of his brother,
he succeeded to the family estate, and it was
supposed he would sell out and go home to
enjoy it, he made no change at all, save
paying off his debts, and launching forth
into fresh expense  which he had been
quite ready to do before. Few men were
so universally liked as Harry Lynn. Impetuous,
open-hearted, generous, and handsome
as he had been in boyhood, so he
remained in manhood.

Now, do you know much about that
race of men called the Sikhs? Few do,

save that they are people inhabiting certain
tracts of land in India. Nobody had ever
heard of them till about two hundred years
ago, speaking in round numbers, when they
came to light as natives of Hindostan ; a
peaceful, submissive race of men, inoffensive
as are our Quakers. Their religion was a
mixture of Mahometanism and Hindooism,
neither entirely one nor the other, which
brought down upon them persecutions from
the bigots of both creeds ; and towards the
termination of the empire of Delhi these
persecutions became so excessive that the
Sikhs were compelled to rise in arms against
their oppressors. It takes but little, when
once the train is laid, to change a peaceful
race of men to one of cruelty ; and the
Sikhs were goaded to become such. They
established certain chieftaincies amongst
themselves, called Missals, and, with time,
rose to greatness. Some of them took possession

of that portion of India which, being
watered by the five branches of the Indus,
is called the Punjab, or land of five waters ;
whilst others settled themselves on the opposite,
or eastern, side of the Sutlej.

It is more than three parts of a century
w, that the Sikhs of the Punjab, on the
western side of the Sutlej, were first governed
by Eunjeet Singhh  a man of great
ability, who established his kingdom, called
by the name of its capital, Lahore, on a sure
foundation. But power begets the love of
power, and Eunjeet Singhh cast his eye to the
Sikhs on the east of the Sutlej, and thought
he should like to govern them. His hopes
were fruitless, for they had been taken
inter the protection of the British Government
; and, the chances of a war with that
formidable power, Eunjeet Singhh knew better
than to hazard. On the contrary, he entered
into a treaty with the British authorities,.

which proved of advantage to both parties.
Years wore on, and the kingdom of Lahore
increased in importance. On the termination
of the continental wars, when Napoleon
was sent to St. Helena, numerous European
soldiers, men and officers, passed over to
India, and enlisted into the service of Unmeet
Singhh. Under the example and training
of these brave men the army of Eunjeet
Singhh became almost equal to our own. It
carried its conquests into Afghanistan, and
amongst other provinces that fell before its
prowess was the beautiful Vale of Cashmere,
so celebrated in song. But Eunjeet Singhh
died in the course of time, and, with his
death, all the jealousies and ill-feeling of the
Sikhs towards the British, which he had
kept under, broke out with irresistible bitterness,
and there was little peace in the Punjab
afterwards. Not that these animosities and
petty wars concern us here.

In the same year that Harry Lynn obtained
his captaincy he went about exploring
the country. Amongst other places that
he visited was Lahore, and when he left it
he performed an exploit that officers have
borne the character for being expert at,
from a captain bold of Halifax and ghostly
memory, down to those of our own times.
He ' ran away with a maid, who '  did not
hang herself, but went with him to his
quarters at Calcutta.

She was one of the loveliest creatures
possible to be imagined, as some few men,
then living at Calcutta, can remember now ;
but that was no justification for the step
taken by Captain Lynn. Her mother, a
Sikh, had married one of those European
officers who had joined Eunjeet Singhh's
army, a handsome Frenchman ; and this
child, Agee, their only one, was strikingly
like her father, so that her beauty was of

the European, not Asiatic, cast. The
Frenchman died when she was an infant, and
her mother married again, a Sikh. All trace,
nearly all remembrance, of the lady's early
alliance was lost, and Agee was brought up
in the customs, habits, and religion of her
mother's land. During the visit of Captain
Lynn at Lahore he became acquainted with
her, a lovely girl just blossoming into
womanhood ; a powerful attachment sprang
up between them, and the result was  as I
have told you above. Such was the history
of the girl, and the particulars of the affair,
as they became known, bit by bit, to Captain
Lynn's circle of friends at Calcutta.

He enshrined her in a secluded home at
Calcutta ; he surrounded her with all sorts of
expensive luxuries; he lavished every proof
of affection upon her, save one  marriage.
And that she could not now expect.

Yet this Indian girl must not be judged

as we should judge one reared in our own
land of propriety and civilisation. She knew
not that she was committing any grave
offence ; modest, gentle, innocent in mind as
she was before, so she remained. The very
few friends admitted by Captain Lynn recognised
this, and involuntarily accorded
her a respect quite at variance with the
position.

We must now go on to the autumn of
1845. In her Calcutta home, in a luxurious
apartment of it, richly furnished with articles
peculiar to an Eastern life, sat this young
girl we have been speaking of, Agee. She
was in evening dress, enhancing, if that were
possible, her surpassing beauty. Her robe
was of muslin sprigged with silver, silver ornaments
were on her neck and arms, and
were interlaced with her dark hair. Young
and lovely, she looked fitted to adorn society ;

a nameless grace pervaded her presence, a
sweet, modest refinement shone forth in her
every look and action. Poor girl ! hers was
an unhappy fate. Calcutta railed at her
greatly, especially those ladies in it who had
sisters to marry, and who would have given
their heads to get Harry Lynn. None
thought of compassion ; it was all censure ;
yet she merited far more of the one than of
the other, and she was very unhappy. She
had not understood these matters when she
left Lahore, poor maiden ; she understood
them too well now. Perhaps the consciousness
was especially present to her this evening,
for her pale delicate features wore a
look of pain, and tears gathered frequently
in her eyes. The room was redolent of a
sweet perfume, emitted from burning pastilles
; it was open to the terrace, and the
breezy fans intervening kept up a delightful
motion. Outside, stretched at his ease on a

large bench, his heels higher than his head,
and lazily blowing clouds into the air from
his cifjar, was one of the handsomest men in
all Calcutta, and in manners one of the most
prepossessing  and the two don't always go
together. You guess of course that it was
Harry Lynn. He was quite as deep in
thought as Agee inside, and it may be that
his reflections, occurring in disjointed interludes,
were, like hers, not agreeable, for a
contraction, as of perplexity or anger, sat on
his otherwise open brow.

I was a fool  that's what I was I  and
awfully to blame. I ought not to have
brought her away with me or saddled
myself like this for years. How the deuce
it's to be broken through now I can't see.
By Jove ! I shall be worn to a skeleton withall
this planning and perplexity. I have no
sleep at night for worrying over it.

My mother writes me that it's time I

married ! and thinks me an ungrateful doer

o o

never to have run over to England. Ungrateful
! no, no, not that, dearest mother.
Thoughtlessness was born with me, and will
never leave me. It is time I married ; in a
year I shall count thirty summers, and a
fellow gets confirmed in bachelor habits
after that. I wish I coidd marry. Maria
Grame is the dearest and loveliest girl I have
ever known, but it's of no use telling the old
colonel I think so till Agee's disposed of.
Maria cannot know anything about her,
that's clear, for she's too correct a girl to
have listened to my semi-overtaking if she
did. Wish I could make it wholly ! '

Captain Lynn broke off for a moment to
shake the ashes from his cigar.

We might be married here ; I would
get leave of absence and take her to England
; my dear mother's old heart would be
delighted ; and Maria  but where's the use

of planning if one can't execute ? What's to
he done icith Agee ? I can't turn her over as
one does a ballet-dancer. If I could see
any way to send her back to Lahore, with a
few thousands settled on her  but there's
none to be seen. She would rebel at the
first hint of parting, and as to force and
stratagem  awkward both ; and the end not
gained perhaps. The worst is she's so innocent
and unsuspicious, so different from this
sort of thing in general, that there's no
knowing how to deal with her. This all
comes of my own folly. Devil take the
cigar ! it's gone out.'

Rising, and throwing his cigar away,
Harry Lynn stepped into the room, and
spoke, his tone betraying somewhat of the
irritation of his thoughts.

Agee ! how fond you are of those pastilles.
The smell of them is quite overpowering.'


I will not light any more ; these are
nearly out,' she answered in perfect English,
for she had been an apt scholar under his
tuition.

Oh, light as many as you please,' he returned,
in a kinder and more careless tone.
I am going to dress.'

To dress ? ' she exclaimed.

There's a party at Colonel Grame's tonight.
I promised to be there.'

She leaned back on the ottoman, her
whole attitude bespeaking disappointment,
if not despair. 'How many nights  weeks
months have you thus spoken : leaving
me to this home-solitude ; to my dreary
thoughts ! '

Now, Agee, don't be unreasonable,' he
remonstrated. ' I am sure you, of all people,
cannot complain of neglect. But society has
also claims on nie.'

It had the same claims when I was first

here,' she answered mournfully, 'and you
did not leave me then.'

He soothed her, but he evaded a direct
answer, and strode out of the room. He
was never otherwise than affectionate, though
he had tired of her in accordance with the
nature of man. When he returned, he was
in full dress, and, wishing her good-night,
left for Colonel Grame's, gaily whistling some
bars from the last new opera that had found
its way from our shores to Calcutta.

Agee sat on where she was. Musical instruments,
on which she was a finished performer,
were at hand, books in French and
English lay on the tables ; but she neglected
all, and never moved from her attitude of
despair. Late in the evening, a middle-aged
woman, dressed in a fashion peculiar to
Lahore, glided in.

Ever thus, lady,' she said, in their native
language, ' ever cast down ! You would be

VOL. n. T

better and happier in your own land than
here; and  the time has come when you
must indeed return to it.'

Agee looked up with a deepening colour,
for the words were peremptorily spoken.

Listen ! ' cried the woman earnestly, as
she bent to her mistress. ' This bosom
pillowed your head in its infancy ; you were
the solace of this poor heart in your childhood,
and when you left us, I thought it
would have broken. Your mother died ;
and I, who felt myself more to you than she
had ever been, set out to seek you. Far, far
I travelled; through hunger, and thirst, and
heat, and weariness ; along plains of sand,
over deserts, through rivers, across mountains
; with no guide to direct me, save
instinct  the same instinct that will take a
bird to its nest ! and when I was well-nigh
wearied out of life, I found you. What
motive had I, think you, except love ? '

Dayah ! ' cried the young lady, rousing
herself, ' I know your love for me. I know
you have been to nie all that a mother can
be  more than mine Alas : that you have remained
here in this strange land, away from
ties and kindred, for my sake. I know all
this.'

Then, remembering it, dear lady, you
may be sure I would be silent for ever,
rather than speak a word to give you pain.
Yet I must say that word this night.'

Say on,' she faintly cried.

You have clunor to this Englishman
longer than is well. You '

'sot so,' interrupted Agee, her pale
cheek flushing. 'We shall cling to each
other so long as our years shall last.'

No, no, lady,' returned the woman ;
he seeks to deceive if he says that. There
is a fair girl of the north ready to supplant
you ; one whose eyes are of the beautiful

hue of the heavens ; whose hair is as sunny
threads of gold. I have seen her. This
very day, in public, he was by her side.'

What of her ? ' shivered Agee.

She is to be his wife : it is no secret in
Calcutta. And you, lady, will be put away,
estranged from him more effectually than if
you had never known him. It is their
custom, these Europeans.'

Agee did not answer. She rose and
stood there, motionless and rigid. It seemed
as if the woman's gaze, bent on her, had
turned her into stone, like the agis of old.
Was this the cause of his changed affection
that he loved another ?

The attendant looked round, and bringing
her face in closer contact with that of her
mistress, proceeded in a cautious whisper :

I have heard again to-day. The Sikhs
waver no longer ; they are united and determined,
and the war is coming on rapidly.

In three moons from this, lady, they will
have possession of India.'

But still there was no answer. It was as
if the young girl heard not.

The Akalio  are singing them on now,'
proceeded the old nurse, ' so any thought of
peace is fruitless. You must not stay here :
the land will be overrun with blood, from
one end of it to the other.'

'You have had news?' asked Agee, at
length. ' Who was your messenger ? '

'He who always is. He is true to me
and swift. He returns the day after tomorrow,
not earlier, for he must have time
for rest. Leave this false Englishman at
once, dearest lady ; our people must not find
you here with him. I will conduct you
back to our own land : and let the two

 Wandering Priests. A fanatic race of men, possessing
unbounded influence in the Punjab, especially over the
native chieftains.

years you have passed out of it be blotted
from remembrance.'

A step was heard, and the speaker bent
down her ear to listen. It was that of
Captain Lynn, and she drew away as noiselessly
as she had entered. Agee sank down
and buried her face in her hands.

It was for this then that the unhappy
girl had followed him ! It was for this she
had relinquished her beloved native land,
envying the very winds that blew towards
it ; her dearest friends ; her fair fame, though
she knew it not ; her childhood's language 
only to be cast aside for another ; one to be
as much loved and more honoured than she
had been !

Captain Lynn came on, whistling ; rather
a habit of his. But his step was slow, and
the tune  if it might be called onewas
melancholy as the Dead March in " Saul."
She rose in an outburst of passionate sobs

when lie entered, and throwing herself at his
feet, wildly clasped his knees.

Oh, send me not away from you ! ' she
besought in agony. ' This northern girl
cannot love you as I have loved. Will she
tend you in sickness  bear with your wayward
moods in health ?  would she give up
home, mother, reputation for you as I did,
and endure silently the scorn and neglect of
the world ? '

Agee, what mean you ? ' he asked in
agitation.

You are false to me ! ' she exclaimed ;
you are about to turn me adrift that you
may wed the fair girl of the north. I have
not deserved it of you.'

Stay, Agee ! ' he interrupted. ' Whence
you derived this information, I know not.
That my name has been coupled with this
English lady's is, I believe, true ; but it will
never be coupled with hers again. From
this night I go to her house no more.'

More deceit ! more deceit ! ' she wailed,
lifting her hands wildly. ' You are mocking
me now ! '

No ; on a soldier's honour. I have bid
adieu to Maria Grame for ever.'

The fact was, Colonel Grame, finding
that the attentions of Captain Lynn at his
house were daily becoming more particular,
had that night intimated to him that, ' under
existing circumstances,' his friendship with
his daughters had better cease. Whether,
when he lingered with Maria for a moment
in parting. Captain Lynn had whispered a
hope that a more favourable future might
yet dawn for them, cannot be known ; if so,
he would not be likely to speak of it to the
Asiatic girl.

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

C. &: G*

Spottiswoode & Co. Printer's, New-street Square, London.

,o

l-'l'

"oM"

 fijm

'rCk

l<tili

Illinois-URBANA

  > . >WA'' \. md'Tiy'- V. ' ''Hikes

iHaB

n.j



y Grace



,<*.',v

*tm

m

M

Mrs. Henry Wood

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

Of 



west.

v.3

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books
are reasons for disciplinary action and may
result in dismissal from the University.

  AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

JUL 2 2 197%

6 2008

t ki rvmo/;

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/ladygraceotherst03wood

VOL. III.

STOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street SQUARE

LONDON

X

AND OTHER STORIES

BY

MRS HENRY WOOD

AUTHOR OF ' EAST Lynn ' ' THE Channing ' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. III.

LONDON

Richard BENTLEY & SON. NEW BURLINGTON Street

publishers in rbinarrj to %jtx Ittajrstij the (Qnttn



All rails reserved

CONTENTS

THE THIRD VOLUME.

PAGE

A Soldier's Career 1

The Surgeon's Daughters 43

i. love 45

ii. the prediction 100

The Unholy Wish 169

FROM A RECORD OF THE PAST

VOL. III. B

It was the following December. Captain
Lynn had transferred his quarters to Um-
ballad, where a great portion of the British
army was now collected. Preparations were
being made for battle, but much uncertainty
was experienced regarding the movements
of the Sikhs. Some days, news would be
brought that they were about to cross the
Sutlej ; others, that they were crossing it ;
again, that they were retreating and would
not cross at all. But these various details
need not be given here.

Captain Lynn, to his most excessive
annoyance, had been followed to Umballah
by the young Sikh woman, Agee  not to

B 2

his quarters, of course, but to the town. He
had peremptorily enjoined her to remain at
Calcutta until his return. The old nurse or
attendant, Dayah, had accompanied her
thither, and this woman never ceased to
urge upon her mistress the expediency of
her quitting any place that contained
Captain Lynn. One evening she glided into
Agee's presence, her face pale, her mouth
compressed, and approached with a dread
whisper :

Lady, you must leave him now : the
hour has come. A few days will see him
and his companions mown down ; earth shall
hold them no more.'

Agee's lips turned white as marble.

They are now crossing the Sutlej,' continued
the woman in a still lower whisper,
as if she feared the very walls would hear
her, ' an army of from sixty to a hundred
thousand strong. What can their handful of

British troops effect against it ?  and that
handful not yet conveyed thither ? '

4 When heard you this ? ' murmured
Agee.

He came this evening ; he is swift and
sure of foot, and has outstripped the European
news-scouts by some hours ; but their
great chieftain x will know it ere tomorrow's
sun be up. He little suspects the fate that is in
store for him ! They are fine of limb, these
northern soldiers, tall and straight ; but erelong
they must measure their length upoi\
the earth. As the grass falls before the
scythe, so must they fall before their fierce
and powerful foe.'

And Captain Lynn ? ' shivered Agee,
from between her bloodless lips.

8 He must share the fate of his comrades
what should hinder it ? Why, even did
you turn apostate to your oath, lady, and

1 Governor-general.

betray to him what I have now told you,
which you know you may not do, it could
not serve him, he would still go to battle
with the rest. You must escape with
me.'

But Agee, with an impatient gesture,
turned away and ventured forth into the
night. Captain Lynn was leaving his
quarters to join a carouse of some of his
brother-officers, got up on the spur of the
moment, when he came full upon her, stealing
up.

You are on the eve of being ordered
out to battle,' she whispered. 'You must
not go.'

6 Not go ? ' he exclaimed, wondering
what she was talking of.

6 Sickness must be your excuse,' she
eagerly explained. ' A man unable to rise
from his bed cannot be expected to go out
to fight.'

8 Are you iu your right mind, Agee ? ' he
asked, laughing lightly.

'You would never leave the battlefield
with life.'

1 Then I must die on it, child.'

You can make a joke even of this ! '

No, not a joke. Though that's a good
one of yours about sickness. An Englishman
does not know what fear is,' he said,
drawing himself unconsciously to his full
height ; ' and for the chances of war, we
must all share them, and trust to Providence.'


Dayah is curious in herbs and medicines,'
she persisted, in a despairing whisper, ' many
of our women are so. A potion from her
would render you incapable of marching
with the rest ; and to the world you would
seem sick unto death

'That's quite enough, Agee,' he said,
half peevishly, half laughingly. ' You don't

understand these things, child. And you
promised me yesterday to leave this place !
I was in hopes you were gone.'

You seem strangely anxious to harm
my countrymen she exclaimed, still reverting
to the war.

'Not at all. I wish to my soul they
were other than yours, but I must do my
duty

Thirteen of them were present ; the
ominous number; and they sat around the
convivial table of night. Not with the
luxurious appurtenances usual in polished
Europe ; the rich plate, the glittering crystal,
the numerous lights ; such things pertain not
to a half-civilised land or to a time of war
and tumult ; but the gay jest, the sparkling
remark, and the merry song went round all
the same. Gallant, gallant officers they
were, true-hearted Englishmen, in the flower

of early manhood ! And they knew not
that the shadow of grim Death was upon
them, his dart pointed at the heart of
all.

1 The information is so imperfect, so contradictory,'
observed Major Challoner, the
only grey-headed man at the board : ' if we
lance the full tilt of belief into a report one
day, it is contradicted the next.'

In my opinion our march will be useless,'
cried handsome Lieutenant Bell. 'I
don't believe the Sikhs are coming forward
at all.'

8 They dare not cross,' burst forth the
hot-headed young Irishman, Dan Ennis.

I hope to goodness they may ! ' exclaimed
little Parker, who had certainly been
smuggled into the army, for he was under
height, or looked it. ' The glory of routing
'em right and left ! '

1 They may prove a more formidable

enemy than we think for remarked the
cautious old Major who had spoken first.

'Not they,' replied Harry Lynn, contemptuously.
' An organised rabble never
proved formidable. The wine stands with
you, Henderson.'

For my part,' resumed Major Challoner,
as he thoughtfully filled his glass, ' I think
Sir Henry '

'Well, Major?' cried one; for the
Major had brought his sentence to a standstill.


What's that in the shade ? There ! by
the entrance ? Who's eavesdropping ? '

Every head was turned round at the
exclamation of Major Challoner. A figure,
clad from head to foot in a long black garment,
with a cowl drawn over the face, if it
had a face ; in short, a dim, shapeless form,
stood there in the obscurity.

6 What do you want ? Who are you ? '

roared out Major Challoner in his mother
tongue ; indeed he could speak no other.

8 Beware ! ' was uttered by the figure in
Hindostan ; a language familiar to some of
them only ; but the voice was as a strange
unearthly sound, ringing with startling distinctness
through the depths of the room.
You sit here, mocking at the Sikhs, but
know that the moment you march upon
them you are doomed  doomed ! They are
crossing the Sutlej now, a hundred thousand
strong. You will be cut off in your early
lives ; your fair British homes you will never
see again : not one of you but will be struck
down; not one will be left alive to mourn
the rest ! Pray to the Lord for your souls :
as sure as that you go out against the Sikhs,
your destruction cometh : and they have
need of prayer who rush into His presence,
uncalled by Him.'

Surprise kept the officers silent. Lieutenant

Parker, who had more ready bravery
in him than many a man twice his size, was
the first to start from his seat and rush after
the form; others followed: but it was
already gone. They looked outside, and
could see no trace of it ; but there were
many ins and outs of buildings close by that
might favour concealment.

'What was it all? ' cried Major Challenger,
who had not understood a word.

6 Oh, a trick of one of the fellows said
Henderson : ' nothing else

I don't know,' cried the young Irishman,
dubiously. ' I hate such tricks. I
can fight a host of men hand to hand, and
glory in it ; but for these ghosts and warnings
and omens, I wish the fiend had them
all.'

6 Did you ever see a ghost, Ennis ? '
asked Captain Lynn, winking at the rest, for
the lieutenant's superstitious tendencies were

well known in the regiment. ' What are
ghosts like ? '

4 Which of us was to die, eh ? ' cried
Major Challoner.

Every one of us,' cried Bell, making a
joke of it. ' We had better have a batch of
will-making, and go to prayers afterwards.'

All, eh ? That's rather too good a jest,'
returned the Major.

You and all, Major,' nodded Quicksilver
Peacock, as he was designated amongst
his comrades, from the mercurial tendency
he possessed of never being still. 4 By
George ! the black fellow, ghost or no ghost,
must think we have tolerable swallows ! I
should like to get at his with my good
sword.'

1 Thirteen as brave fellows as ever drew
breath ! ' laughed Parker. ' A pretty go if
we are to make food forthwith for the vultures
! '

And be sent to our accounts with all
our imperfections '

6 If you go on like this, I won't stop with
you,' interrupted the young Irishman.

They did go on ; and enjoyed their
laugh at him : but there was scarcely one
heart, brave though they all were, on which
the incident had not struck an uncomfortable
feeling, a sort of chill. It was as if they
had seen the shadow of Death, which stalked
on before.

III.

The Sikhs advanced unconscious of the
mocking disbelief of their British adversaries,
and encamped themselves before the gates
of Ferozepore, an army sixty thousand
strong. That they did not make themselves
masters of the town was a matter of astonishment
then, and will ever remain such.

By command of the Governor-general,
Sir Henry Hardinge, all the troops that
could be mustered together at Umballah
marched out to meet this force and to
succour Ferozepore. They were headed by
the Commander-in-chief, General Sir Hugh
Cough, and were accompanied by Sir
Henry, who, laying aside his dignity as

Governor of India, took upon himself a
command in the army under Sir Hugh.
The marches were forced, about thirty
miles per day. Both men and officers endured
all sorts of hardship and privation
without a murmur : the most painful to be
borne perhaps was that arising from the
want of water, there being none to be found
on the route. On December 18, after some
days' march, they reached the village of
Moodkee about one hour after noon, and
proceeded to encamp there, trusting the next
day's march would bring them to Froze


But we civilians, in our peaceful country,
talk as we may, cannot form any adequate
idea of the hardships undergone by the
soldiers in these Indian plains in time of
war ; the unconscious British trooper who
has never been out of his own island would
scarcely believe in them. Long marches in

the burning sun, over roads heavy with
sand, which, flying to the eyes, goes halfway
towards entailing blindness ; or trailing
painfully through the tangled jungle and
brushwood, with no water, no refreshment,
to cool their parched lips. We know not
what intense thirst is ; the cravings of real
hunger ; the pain of continued and heavy
toil. Sometimes, nay often, it happened,
through this period of the Sikh war, that
when the men had arrived at the end of
their march, it would be two hours before
the tents and baggage came up, and until
they did come there was no chance of
refreshment. So the troops, all in a state
of physical exhaustion painful to witness,
still more painful to bear, would sink down
on the ground, utterly prostrated, beneath
the burning rays of an Indian sun, or, worse
still, under torrents of rain. Was it a
vol. in. C

u

matter of surprise that the hospitals were
overflowing ?

But to return to these men we are speaking
of. They arrived at Moodkee, exhausted
with their march and with physical privations,
and had barely taken up their station
before its walls, when the Sikhs bore down
upon them and opened a tremendous fire.
But weary and unfit for contest as they
were, the men had the spirit of Britons, and
rushed forward to meet their powerful
enemy. They repulsed and routed them for
the time, but with a fearful loss both of men
and officers.

They were burying their dead the next
day, calling over the muster-rolls, succouring
the wounded, and consoling the dying,
when Captain Lynn and little Parker ran
against Lieutenant Ennis.

6 1 say ! ' cried the Irishman, ' it's beginning
to work itself out. We were thirteen,

you know, that night at Umballah, and five
are already gone.'

Four,' responded Harry Lynn.

Wrong, Captain, they have just found
poor Henderson.'

'Dead?'

Stark and cold. He was under a heap
of slain.'

On the 21st the army marched out of
camp, leaving it standing, and neared
Ferozepore, after a march of sixteen miles.
Here they met with General Sir John
Littler, commanding about Hye thousand
men. The Sikhs were at hand, and the
whole body of our troops were at once
formed into four divisions and arranged in
fighting order. But again, as in the recent
battle of Moodkee, were the unfortunate
men hurried into action unfit for the contest,
hungry, thirsty, and weary.

The battle of Ferozeshah, as it was

c 2

called, began under a mutual assault of
cannon ; but the light artillery of the British
was of little avail against the heavy guns of
the Sikhs, so the firing was ordered to cease
and the infantry to advance. The Sikh
army was strongly entrenched among the
jungle and brushwood, rendering the approach
of our infantry not only difficult but
dangerous. They advanced in line, and
charged with the bayonet, but the firing of
the enemy was redoubled : and the Sikhs
had laid mines, which were now fired underneath
our soldiers' feet. Hundreds were
thus shattered to pieces ; officers, men, and
horses were indiscriminately blown up.
The action soon raged fearfully, the
slaughter being terrible ; the heavy cannonade
of the Sikhs kept up a continuous
roar, overwhelming with destruction the ill-fated
Europeans : but the latter were gallant
fellows, cheering on each other with their

indomitable breasts of valour, carrying much
and overcoming much. The atmosphere
seemed alive with bullets; the roll of the
musketry grew deeper and deeper; the
shouts and noise of the combatants increased
the confusion ; above the roar of the tempest
would be heard the voices of the commanding
officers : ' Men of the Europeans,

prepare to charge. Charge ! ' and, mingling
painfully with the tumult, rose the shrieks
of the wounded and the groans of the dying.

Night put a stop to the slaughter. Some
of the troops retired to bivouac at a little
distance, but considerable numbers of each
contending party intermingled on the plain
together.

But oh ! what a night it was ! The air
cutting cold ; no tents, no covering, no food
for the exhausted soldiery, who had been
sixteen hours under arms, and, worse than
all, no water ! Many a wounded man died

that night for want of it. There was very-little
medical assistance, for the numbers
wounded were too great to allow of much,
and the shades of darkness were upon the
earth. And so there they lay, poor fellows,
groaning in their agony ; no linen to bandage
up their wounds, no pillow to lay their
beating heads upon, save the dead bodies
that crowded there and the horses that
were slain. It was a ghastly sight, that
field of battle, as seen by the glimmering of
some solitary torch ; it would be more
ghastly still in the coming moonlight. The
forms of the dead lay stiffened and rigid as
they had fallen, the sharp expression of
anguish yet conspicuous on the livid, upturned
faces. Officers and men, Sikhs and
British, had fallen there together, peaceful
towards each other in death, though they
were not so in life. Ah ! they were equal
now : the officers, some perchance of noble

family, who had been reared luxuriously,
and the men, who, it may be, had never
known a borne, or an asylum worthy the
name of one. The one class had received
no more care than the other in dying :
there was no wife or mother to soothe their
agonies of body, no priest to administer
calmness to the soul : equal as they would
be in the next world, so had been the last
scene of their lives in this. But striking
more painfully still upon the heart of the
beholder, himself hitherto spared, came the
incessant cries of the departing  of those
who might have been saved ; the vain cry
that went up around for water ; and the
anguished, unanswered calls for assistance,
the sharp, eager question of were they to be
left there, among the dead, to die !

In a part of the field, near to the camp
of the Governor-general, reclining on the
ground in their arms, was a group of officers.

When you last saw some of these it was at
that convivial night meeting at Umballah.
All were not there of that thirteen : five
had been slain at Moodkee and three more
in that day's carnage. Leaving five : but two
of those five were wounded, it was thought
mortally.

I say ! ' cried Lieutenant Bell, who had
been nursed in blue and silver at his mother's
apron-string, and had never known a care in
the world, except that of his handsome face,
we were all calling out for a taste of the
battlefield, but I don't admire such rough
work as this.'

'Rough enough,' commented Major Challenger.
'But there's the glory, you know,
Bell.'

4 Egad, I'd rather have another sort of
glory, than what's to be got fighting with
these demons of Sikhs. If they were but
an honourable, open foe, meeting you hand

to hand, it would be something like. Who
would have laid a powder-magazine under
our feet, to blow us up wholesale, save these
sneaking cowards of heathens ? '

All stratagems are fair in war, they
say

c Stratagems be shot! ' muttered the lieutenant
wrathfully. 'I think those prolific-brained
enthusiasts who rave so much of the
glories of war, Major, exciting one on to
become soldiers, might put in a little about
its horrors. What was that cry ? '

Only a death-shriek,' said Major Challenger.


Ugh ! ' shivered the young man, ' How
ghastly the heaps of slain look in the moonlight
! '

Why, yes,' cried the Major. ' One who
faints at the sight of blood had best go
away from a field when the battle's over. I
freely admit that it wants the excitement

of engagement to keep one's spirit above
zero.'

Do you know,' resumed the lieutenant,
the scene has several times to-day put mein
mind of a war-description of Byron's ?
It's in a short poem, or fragment, of his,
called " The Devil's Drive." Do you know
it?'

6 Not I,' growled Major Challoner,
poetry's not in my line : never read a
verse in my life. It may be in yours.'

It is a glance at the battle of Leipsic.
He watches the red blood running in
such streams from the mountains of slain,
that the field " looks like the waves of
Hell." The "he" being the Devil, you
know.'

6 Ah,' cried the Major, ' very likely. It
partakes more of the Devil's work than
angels.'

6 Hark at the moans of those poor

wretches, dying for water ! Ugly ! ' shivered
the young man again, ' how damp it is ! '

1 And bitter cold. Lynn, how are
you?'

A groan was the only answer Major
Challoner received. Captain Lynn had been
dangerously wounded in the leg with grapeshot.


How's the pain ? '

Oh, don't talk about the pain,' murmured
poor Harry Lynn. ' If I could only
have some water ! ' Hundreds echoed the
cry that night, in vain.

Major Challoner moved away on a work
of succour. Exhausted though he might be,
and necessary as repose was to him, he could
not hear those wails for help around and
lie down to his own rest. There came upto
the spot soon afterwards, making his way
over the prostrate bodies, the young Irishman,
Ennis.

I Lynn ! Bell ! ' lie cried eagerly, ' by all
that's true, I have seen it again ! '

Seen what ? ' asked Captain Lynn, rousing
himself momentarily from his agony.

That bird of ill-omen : the black form
ghost, banshee, or whatever it might be 
which appeared to us that night at Urn-ballad.'


Don't be a fool,' retorted Bell savagely,
disturbed out of the sleep into which he was
falling. 'Your superstitious absurdities are
not wanted to-night, Ennis ; we've horrors
enough without them.'

1 I swear I saw it ! I swear it by the
Blessed Virgin ! The same black, shapeless
figure. It's dodging about the field, as
if it were seeking something amongst the
dead.'

I wish you were dodging amongst the
dead ! ' growled the handsome lieutenant.
Why did you not stop in Ireland along

with your banshees if you are so fond of
them? Your teeth are chattering now.'

6 With cold,' answered Ennis hastily.
But I must go back : I am on the Staff, in
the place of poor Bellassis. Lynn, can I
change your position before I go ? '

Towards the hour of midnight, Captain
Lynn, between his paroxysms of pain, had
dropped into an uneasy doze, when some
movement aroused him. The dark shape,
spoken of by Lieutenant Ennis, was bending
over him.

Doubting if he were awake, or whether
it was not a delusion of the imagination,
caused by the conversation of his brother-officers,
he rubbed his eyes and gazed up at
it, when the figure threw back the dark
cowl and disclosed to his astonished sight the
features of the young Asiatic.

Good heavens, Agee ! What brought 
how came you here ? '

I told you I would share your fate,
whatever it might be,' she whispered. ' You
talked of separation, and I let you talk, keeping
to my own resolve. I assumed this
disguise that night at Umballah, hoping to
frighten you from marching against the
Sikhs. And when I found it was useless,
and you left, I followed in the track of the
regiment ; but I could not come up with it
until this night.'

It was not your voice that spoke to us
that night at Umballah ! ' exclaimed Captain
Lynn, bewildered with her words.

c It was my voice, but I spoke through a
small bone instrument, in use among the
Sikhs, something like a ring; so that none
could recognise it to be the voice of a
woman. I have come now to save you. I
will find you a sure asylum amongst my
countrymen. Rise, and follow me.'

I shall never rise again,' was his reply.

 I am severely wounded.'

Wounded ! ' she uttered, in an accent of
deep horror. ' But you must not stay in
this spot : it is certain destruction.'

4 Destruction anywhere for me. Why in
this spot more than in another ? '

1 I have wandered amongst the Sikhs
unmolested this night,' she whispered,
speaking my own tongue. They have just
found out the place where your chiefs are
encamped, and are hastening back to fire on
it. This is in the direct line. You must not
remain here.'

1 To fire on the camp ! ' he screamed.

 Bell ! '

But the young lieutenant slept heavily.
1 Bell ! Bell ! ' continued Captain Lynn.

1 What are you about to do ? ' cried
Agee wildly. 'Would you betray me 
what I have told you ? '

4 Betray you ! No, no, I don't mean that.
Sink down here by my side, Agee ; the
light does not give here, in the shade of the
hillock.'

He pulled her down with one hand, and
managed, though he could not stir his
maimed leg, to stretch out the other till it
touched the lieutenant, who partially aroused
himself.

'Bell! Bell! fly to the camp. The
enemy are upon them, opening their guns.
Bell, I say i*

What guns ? ' cried the sleepy lieutenant,
raising himself into a sitting posture.
Guns ! Where are our scouts and sentinels
then ? Have we none out ? '

Are you a coward ? ' reiterated Captain
Lynn ; ' every moment that you waste is
worth a Jew's ransom. Fly for your life,
and arouse the Staff. Would you have the
camp destroyed ? '

The lieutenant, fully aroused now to the
sense of the words, started up in haste to do
his mission. Captain Lynn turned to that
dark figure by his side.

Now, Agee ! quick ! you can make your
escape.'

1 As I have clung to thee in life, so will
I in death,' she murmured. ' What, think
you, will existence be for me henceforth, that
you should wish me to remain in it ? '

This is madness ! ' he exclaimed in much
excitement. ' Agee ! ?

Boom !  boom !  boom ! rolled the thunder
of the Sikhs' heavy gun. It had commenced
its work of destruction. Captain
Lynn, supporting himself on his elbow as he
best could, turned his head to look after his
messenger. Even in that very moment, ashe
gazed, a shot overtook the young lieutenant.
With a wild, piercing cry, that
reached and rung in the ear of Captain

VOL. III. D

Lynn, lie leaped some feet into the air. It
was the last cry that ever came from poor
William Bell. He was shot right through
the heart.

Captain Lynn, amidst all the smoke and
the dismay and the confusion that now
reigned around, was conscious of a start and
a moan beside him : but not for a few minutes
was he aware that the unhappy young lady
who lay there had received her death wound.

Oh, Agee ! this is fearful ! ' he cried,
almost beside himself with horror. 'And
I am helpless  helpless!' he despairingly
wailed, wildly throwing his arms up, in vain
efforts to move ; ' I cannot bear you hence to
safety and to succour ! '

There is no succour for me,' she
returned in hollow tones, 'my soul is fleeing.
But oh, Henry ! which dost thou think
is more welcome to me  to live on in perpetual
dread that thou wilt desert me for

another, or to sink quietly to death thus by
thy side ? '

The camp, so startlingly aroused from its
temporary security, sallied out against the
Sikhs, but not until fearful havoc had been
committed. The whole of the Staff, with the
exception of Captain Hardin ge, were killed
or disabled. Sir Henry ordered her Majesty's-soli
Foot and the 1st European Light
Infantry to the attack, who drove back the
enemy and spiked their gun.

What were the reflections of Captain
Lynn as he lay there through the night, with
the dead body of the young girl resting
against him? Not such as can tend to
soothe the conscience of a dying man. He
felt that the career bestowed on him from
above was over, and how had he worked it
out ? He saw things clearly now : the near
approach of death dashed away the scales
from his eyes, and denuded his conscience oi

dits

worldly sophistries. The recollection of
the life he had led came pressing on his brain.
He knew that it was not one that fitted him
to stand at that Judgment-bar whither he
was hastening, to which her spirit had
already flown : and, it may be, in those
closing hours, in his soul's sharp tribulation,
that he wailed forth an agonised petition for
renewed days, like unto one we read of 
not that he might return to his years of
vanity, but that he might strive to redeem
the past. But no : the sun went not back
for him.

With daylight the battle was renewed.
The conflict raged with redoubled fury, and
the slaughter on both sides was great. Victory
appeared at length to favour the British,
and the engagement, it was thought, was
over. Our troops began to collect their
wounded and bury their dead, when, suddenly,
a force of the enemy, thirty thousand

strong, consisting of cavalry and their camel-corps
with swivels, bore down upon them.
The infantry drove them back at the point
of the bayonet, amidst showers of round and
grape. The British forces were certainly at
this moment in a critical position : all their
ammunition incas expended, and they had nota
single gun wherewith to answer the enemy.
Thirty thousand fresh troops and a heavy
cannonade brought to bear upon our exhausted
and, as far as artillery went, defenceless
soldiers ! Yet strange to say, at sight of
some threatening manoeuvres, the Sikhs fled,
leaving the British in possession of the field
and of much of their artillery ! And thus, in
this strange manner, ended the sanguinary
battle of Ferozeshah. . You don't want to
hear of many such, do you ?

A well ! a well ! ' broke forth, in shouts
of exultation, from some hundreds of British
voices soon after the fighting was over. It

was really true : they had discovered one in
front of the village they had taken. Bitter
disappointment ! the water was putrid, it
having been half filled with their dead by
the Sikhs. Nevertheless, it was greedily partaken
of : general officers, poor soldiers, all
pressed round to drink. ' Horrible ! ' shudders
the dandy, sipping his claret at home.
It was horrible ; but when you, my dear sir,
shall have experienced the blessings of a
forced march under an Indian sun, winding
up with a hot engagement of some six-and-twenty
hours at its end, without a drop of
moisture having gone into your parched lips,
you will not turn away from even putrid
water.

Two only remained out of the thirteen
officers of Umballah memory, Captain Lynn
and the young Irishman, and they were
wounded unto death. Major Challoner and
Captain Peacock had that day fallen. The

Asiatic girl, when she pretended to foretell
their doom, knowing nothing of it, gave a
pretty good guess at the extent of the carnage.
They, the two yet living, had been
drawn aside from the dead, and were lying
close to each other, amidst a whole crowd of
wounded ; and the agony of their wounds
was even as nothing compared with that
arising from their distressing thirst.

Lynn,' cried the Irishman, who retained
his superstition to the last, ' we can sympathise
with Dives now, when he asks for
Lazarus to dip the tip of his finger in water
and come and cool his tongue. It has been
an unlucky fight for us : there was no escaping
our fate.'

1 We have earned laurels, you know
returned Captain Lynn, with half-mocking
bitterness on his lip. Poor Harry Lynn !
take it for all in all, his was a cruel fate, and
his heart was full.

And lost life,' retorted Ennis. ' For
my part, I expected the bullet that struck me,
after what I saw yesterday. You matter-of-fact
Anglicans don't stoop to believe in
death-warnings. Perhaps I may see it again
before I die : but it must make haste.'

A paler shade, if that could be, came
over the face of Captain Lynn, and he
pressed his hands upon his temples. He
was about to speak, about to tell Ennis that
he need have no fear of seeing 'it' again,
when a wild shouting noise in the distance
stopped his words.

What's all that ? ' inquired Lieutenant
Ennis of a soldier who approached carrying
something in his hand. It was a man belonging
to Captain Lynn's corps.

We have been rummaging over the
Sikh entrenchment, sir,' was the reply, ' and
in it we have found the mess stores which
they had captured, intended for the Bengal

Native Infantry. There was a lot of beer in
it  so glorious ! It is being dealt out, and
I have brought you some.'

The officers raised their earnest eyes,
their parched, eager lips, and a rush of joy,
almost frantic in its excess, illumined their
dying features.

God be thanked !  He is with us still,
Lynn,' reverently spoke Ennis as he fell back,
after drinking of the sweetest draught he
had ever yet tasted. ' We can now die in
peace. God be thanked ! '

Amen,' responded Harry Lynn.

Surgeon's Daughters

I.

LOVE.

Do you happen to be acquainted with the
Faithful City of Worcester ?  The loyal city
which, in its hardheartedness, remained firm
to its unhappy king, Charles the Martyr,
with his son, when all other of his towns had
turned against him, and so earned the right
to be called Faithful for ever ? If a stranger,
you cannot do better than pay a day's visit
to it : you may go to many a town less worth
seeing. Whilst your dinner is preparing at
the Star and Garter  at which dinner you
must beg the host not to forget the Severn
salmon, and the far-famed lampreys, fatal in
his day to the First Henry  go on a tour

of inspection through the city. Take its
cathedral first : and when you have looked
at its renovated grandeur ; at its cold, handsome
monuments, erected to the memory of
those who have long been colder than they
are, and admired its beauteous east window
of many colours, step into the cloisters,
where the irreverent Cromwell stabled his
horses, and there pause awhile over the
gravestone bearing the solitary inscription
Miseries,' and speculate upon its unhappy
tenant's life and fate. Then, passing
through the 'Green,' and the gate of
Edgar Tower, turn to Chamberlain's China
Factory  it has passed into other hands
now, but the name still clings to it, and
will cling, whilst present generations shall
exist. The Worcester china is spoken
of all over the world, and deserves its
reputation: in point of art and refined
beauty it yields to none. You may have

been all the way to Pekin, and bought up
all its curious teacups and saucers ; you
may be at home in all the splendours of all
the departments of the Sevres Porcelaine ;
but you see they cannot surpass, if they
can vie with, that produced at Worcester.
Turning about again, from the China-works,
to stand in front of the Guildhall, you
admire its facade, its statues, and its conspicuous
motto, ' Forest Semper Fidelis
Ci vital.' Did you ever hear the anecdote
connected with its body corporate of other
days, when George the Third was king ?
His Majesty visited the Faithful City, staying
in it a few days : and this most loyal] corporation
exercised their brains devising ways
and means of showing their fealty: as,
between ourselves, corporations do still :
which, it is said, were well and duly appreciated.
When the addressing, and the
feasting, and all the rest of it was over, and

the King was preparing to leave the town,
one last and final attention was projected by
the body-corporate. A deputation of them
waited on their august guest, obtained an
audience, and solicited ' the honor of escorting
his Majesty to the gallows.' The King
stared, laughed, and thought he would rather
be excused. They had omitted to explain
that they merely wished to pay his Majesty
the respect of attending him out of the town
as far as the spot where the gallows for the
condemned criminals stood. It was at the
top of Eed Hill. The King gave permission
to that.

The inhabitants of Worcester are said to
deserve the initials P. P. P. affixed to their
names, denoting Poor, Proud, and Pretty.
Whether, take them as a whole, they are
poor, I cannot say ; proud they undoubtedly
are, for that is the characteristic of all
cathedral towns ; and you certainly cannot

walk through the city without being struck
with the remarkably pretty faces of the girls
you meet.

At a long-past period, so long that
elderly people can only just remember it,
there lived in Worcester a surgeon and
general practitioner, Mr. George Juniper.
He was a little man, with a fair complexion
and curly light hair ; skilful, kind-hearted,
sensible, and much esteemed by his fellow-citizens.
He had been in practice many
years and his connection was extensive ; but
he was no longer young, and began to feel
the need of a little rest and less responsibility.
Mr. Juniper always kept a qualified assistant
who was generally a young man ; though
latterly he had not been fortunate in respect
to his assistants. One of them sent a patient
poison in mistake for Epsom salts, which
nearly cost the lady her life ; another grew
fonder of the billiard-table than he was of

vol. in. E

the surgery ; and a third made love too conspicuously
to the surgeon's daughters. So
that of assistants Mr. Juniper grew weary,
and thought he must try some other system
of help.

George Juniper rejoiced in seven daughters.
' Seven daughters ! ' cries the aghast
sold bachelor, reading this through his
spectacles ; ' was he mad? ' Well, sometimes
they did nearly enough to drive him so, had
he been less good-humoured and indulgent.
But he could not lay the claim of paternity to
all the seven. It had happened in this way :

There resided in Worcester, again many
years back even from this, an old gentleman
of the name of Battlebriclge, He had made
a large fortune in business, and had retired to
enjoy it, or a portion of it, in a great square
handsome house with a large garden, keeping
a cook, housemaid, and gardener, the
.two latter being man and wife.

Up to one-and-seventy years of age Mr.
Battlebridge had not married ; consequently,
his dear relatives, even to the twentieth
cousin, although they were all well off, were
excessively attentive and affectionate towards
him, calling upon him and carrying him
presents of jam and flannel nightcaps a great
deal oftener than he wanted them. But one
day it was disclosed to the old gentleman
that a graceless nephew of his had avowed,
the previous night, in a mixed society, that
not one of them ' cared a rap for the old
man ; all they wanted was that he should
betake himself off, so that they might inherit
his gold.'

Whilst Mr. Battlebridge was digesting
this agreeable news, there burst into his
parlour his cook and housekeeper, Molly;
her cheeks crimson, and her voice angry.
She had been having another breeze with
the gardener and his wife, such breezes being

H 2

pretty common, and had come to give warning.
Now Molly was a superior young
woman and a good girl, who looked after her
master's comforts, and old Battlebridge would
as soon have lost his right hand.

It's two to one,' cried Molly, turning
her comely nice to her master. ' What
chance have I against them ? They are
always on at me : and Mark is the most
overbearing man alive. If you don't like to
pay me my wages, sir, and let me be oil this
day, I'll leave without them.'

6 I'll make it two to two for you, Molly,
if you will, and then you can have fair play
responded the old gentleman,

How will you do that, master ? '
asked Molly, her passion a little abating,
and her pretty mouth breaking into a
smile.

'Why, I'll marry you myself,' returned
old Battlebridge.

1 am not in a humour to be joked with,'
retorted Molly, becoming wrathful again.
1 Do you please to pay me, sir, or not ? '

I am not joking,' lie replied. ' I'll get
the license to-day and marry you tomorrow.'


And old Battlebridge did so : and from
that time Molly sat in the parlour with him,
and became as much of a lady as she could,
and was Mrs. Battlebrido-e. Worcester made
a great commotion at the news ; the relatives
made a greater. ' Married, indeed, when he
ought to have died ! ' they cried ; and they
declared that, had they known of it beforehand,
they would have shut him up in the
madhouse at Droitwicln

Three little girls were born to old Battle-bridge,
and then he died, leaving his whole
property to his wife and children. The relations
threw it into Chancery, like the simpletons
they were, for they had not a leg to

stand upon. One of them acknowledged that
they had done it in a moment of exasperation
: and exasperation, mind you, has been
more productive to Chancery than any other
passion. The money came out of it just
halved in value, thanks to the case being
minus the said leg : had it possessed but the
shadow of one, it would never have come
out at all. But there was a great deal still
left ; quite enough to tempt many a suitor
to pay court to the comely Widow Battle-bridge.
The successful one was Surgeon
Juniper ; and the Faithful City wondered.
It wondered that he, being a gentleman in
mind and manners, should take to himself a
vulgar wife : but the surgeon, without so
much as a wry face, gulped down the pill for
the sake of the gilt that covered it.

That the new Mrs. Juniper was in a
degree vulgar, no one could deny : she was
growing plump ; she had not abandoned her

homely speech and grammar, and had not tried
to do so : but she possessed many redeeming
qualities. She was gentle-tempered, kindhearted,
benevolent to the poor, an excellent
wife, mistress, and mother ; and many a wellborn
lady in the city was glad to shake
hands with her and to pay her the respect
she deserved. At the time of Mr. Juniper's
marriage with her he was a widower and
the father of three little girls ; her three little-damsels
made six ; and one, who was born
after the double second marriage of the-parties,
made the seventh. So that is how
Mr. Juniper counted his daughters.

The little girls grew up in course of time
to be young women, well-educated and ladylike,
but full of fun amidst themselves. Two
of them  the eldest in each family  soon
married ; Ann Juniper to a merchant in
Liverpool; Mary Battlebridge to a gentleman
farmer in Worcestershire.

It was about this time that the following
advertisement appeared in the Worcester
Journal and also in the Times : such advertisements
being less common in those
days than they are in these :

To the Medical Profession.  A gentleman
fully qualified as surgeon, &c., possessing
money to purchase a share in a practice,
may hear of something desirable by applying
to G. J. ? Post Office, Worcester.'

The advertisement was Mr. Juniper's.
He received sundry answers to it, and concluded
a negotiation.

Mr. Juniper's house, large and commodious,
stood in one of the principal streets.
Entering from its pillared portico, rooms
opened on each hand : the dining-room on
the right, the parlour on the left ; the 
was above. All these rooms faced

the street. Mr, Juniper's professional rooms
and surgery were at the back, close to the
side entrance.

The parlour was appropriated to the
young ladies, to their occupations and amusements.
You never saw so untidy a place in
your life : one with the bump of order would,
upon entering it, have run away in dismay.
An old piano stood on one side, a key or
two missing and a dozen of its wires  it had
been the girls' practising piano when they
were children ; a set of book-shelves rose
opposite, piled with books in the greatest
confusion ; writing-desks lay about, some on
the floor, some tumbling off chairs ; sheets
of music, in all stages of tearing and copying
; work-boxes stood open, some without
lids, others without bottoms, their contents
all entangled together in one appalling mess ;
pens, pencils, paints, French crayons, palettes,
chalk?, work, thimbles, keys, notes, and

scrap-books were scattered everywhere ;
whilst the chairs and the carpet were worn
and the table-covers frayed.

In this room, one evening in spring,
were all the girls, gathered round a blazing
fire, sitting, kneeling, or standing. The two
Miss Junipers were little, fair, slender young
women, very near-sighted, with hair remarkably
light ; whilst the daughters of the
late Mr. Battlebridge were tall, buxom girls,
with dark eyes and arched eyebrows ; and
the youngest, Georgiana, half-sister to all the
others, was the beauty of the family. She
was now eighteen, and was thought a great
deal of by her sisters in general and by
herself in particular, and she had always
been indulged. They were bustling, accomplished,
good-natured girls, much liked
in society : but their mother possessed
stricter notions of right and wrong than
does many a one who has been better born,

and she ' kept them under,' and saw more
strictly after them than the girls liked. So
they looked forward with ardent hope to
the time when they should be married and
become their own mistresses. Are there
many girls who do not ?  especially when
they find they have left their teens behind
them more years than they would care to
tell.

On this evening, in their own parlour,
they were chattering by firelight ; just the
nonsense that girls do chatter. Their theme
was their father's new partner, who was
expected on the morrow.

I'll tell you what, Julia,' observed Miss
Elizabeth Juniper, ' I have him in my mind's
eye, exactly ; just his portrait.'

Let's have it, Bessyy,' was the response
of Miss Battlebridge.

You remember that precious assistant
papa had two years ago, with a nose like a

monkey's and a waist like an elephant's 2

I wouldn't mind betting a new fan he will
be just such another man.'

6 Green spectacles and all ? '

6 Green spectacles and all : or, perhaps,
an eye-glass by way of a change. We will
turn him over to Cicely ; she used to admire
the elephant ; and he admired her, I
think.'

You may call him an elephant and a
monkey now,' cried Miss Cicely Juniper,
nodding her head, ' but you were all setting
your caps at him then.'

6 Just hark at Cicely ! '

'He will not concern me,' interrupted
Georgiana, tossing back her pretty auburn
curls in the self-sufficiency of her youth and
beauty, ' for I know he will be as old as
papa. I shall begin to call him " uncle " as
soon as he comes.'

Who's this ? ' exclaimed Kate Battle-bridge,

turning sharply round as the door
opened, and a lad r , attired in grass-green
silk and white lace cap with pink ribbons,
entered.

It's only mamma. What are you
coming in here for, mamma ? '

1 Why, the truth is, girls, I dozed off
in the twilight, and the fire went almost out,
so I am come in while they blow it up,'
replied Mrs. Juniper. She was stout now
and pretty red, and she would dress in
bright colours; but her face was comely
still, and her voice kindly as ever. ' Move
away a bit, Bessyy, and let one see the
fire.'

Miss Elizabeth, pushing her sisters closer
together, made room for Mrs. Juniper, without
losing her own place in the circle.

We have been wondering what the
new doctor will be like, mamma.'

'Just like your silliness, girls: wondering

your time away to waste. If I were
you, I'd rather spend it putting this room
straight. He'll be here tomorrow night,
and then you'll see. I have been thinking
what I had better get for his supper.'

Tea, mamma,' interrupted the young
ladies.

6 Tea indeed ! ' ejaculated Mrs. Juniper
indignantly. ' If any of you took a journey
of six-and-twenty miles on a stage-coach,
you'd be glad of something substantial at
the end of it. What do you think of a fine
savoury duck, nicely stuffed with sage and
onions ? '

The girls screamed, laughed, and did not
approve of the dish at all. Bessyy Juniper
suggested an improvement.

Have the tea nicely laid, mamma, with
water cress and small rolls,' she said, ' and
get in a little potted meat '

5 Potted donkey ! ' interrupted her

mother sharply. ' Do you think your papa
is going to take a partner to starve him P '

'Potted meats are the fashion now
Bessyy ventured to remark.

1 For full people ; not for empty ones,'
retorted the hospitably inclined lady. But
before the discussion could be continued
the door again opened, and a servant, looking
in, said : ' Miss Erskine's here, young
ladies.'

The five girls started up and hugged
their visitor nearly to death. She was a
very lovely girl, even for Worcester, with
her dark-blue eyes, her exquisite complexion,
and her raven hair : and though
she was young, and slight, and gentle, she
had a self-possessed manner and a haughty
step.

This is kind, Florence,' they cried ;
we have been so stupid all the evening I
Take your things off. We were going to

send for you tomorrow night, to see the
lion arrive.'

1 The what ? ' asked the young lady.

6 Papa's new partner. He is coming by
the Cheltenham coach. Bessyy vows he'll
be an elephant. And we are afraid he's old.'

6 And, in the name of fortune, what difference
should it make to you girls if he
is old ? ' demanded Mrs. Juniper, turning
round upon them, after shaking hands with
Florence.

Oil  he may not like our noise ; our
music, and that, if he is old,' answered Kate,
glancing at the rest.

The preliminaries are arranged, then ? '
remarked Miss Erskine.

'Yes, they are, my dear,' said Mrs.
Juniper. ' So far as that the gentleman is
coming for six months upon trial. A trial
for both parties, you know, Miss Florence,
which is only fair.'

1 Of course it is,' said Florence. c What
is his name ? '

c His name is the only item in the correspondence
that we don't like said Mrs.
Juniper. ' It's French. But he tells us he
is thorough, genuine English. He is a Mr.
de Courcy.'

Formerly spelt Course, I believe,' said.
Julia Battlebridge. 'We are dyhag to see
what he's like,' she continued in a low voice
to Florence. ' And we have such pretty
new dresses ; challis, trimmed with green
satin ; we mean to put them on tomorrow
night.'

t Put on what ? ' asked Mrs. Juniper *
who caught the last words.

1 Our best behaviour,' cried Julia,
promptly.

But Mrs. Juniper's ears had been quick.
Put on your new challis, will you ! Look
here, girls : you will not set up any of your

TOL. III. F

nonsensical flirting with this gentleman.
Neither your papa nor me would allow it :
mind that.'

Oh dear, no ,' cried the girls promptly
in answer. ' Why, we are expecting him to
be as old as Adam ! Mamma, don't you
think your fire's burnt up ? '

Here's the Cheltenham coach ; the one
he will come by tomorrow evening,' exclaimed
Cicely, as a resounding horn was
heard. 4 He is from London, Florence ; but
he took Cheltenham on his road down, to
see some friends.'

4 How that guard's a-blowing ! ' ejaculated
Mrs. Juniper.

4 And the coach has slackened its speed
as if it were going to stop.'

It is stopping,' said Mrs. Juniper.

6 And at our house too ! and a gentleman
Oh mamma ! ' broke off Cicely in

excitement, ' he is come to-night ! '

1 Who is come ? ' asked Mrs. Juniper.

1 Why, he, Mr. tie Courcy. It must be !
Now he is paying the guard  and now they
are getting down his luggage  and now lie

O O DC ft 1

is knocking at the door. What shall we do
in these old merino frocks ? Is there time
to dress ? '

Bother to dressing ! ' put in the startled
Mrs. Juniper. ; What's to be done about
supper ? Nothing on earth in the house but
some cold hashed mutton and a round of
beef in pickle. Being the bell for the cook :
or one of you girls run and tell her to come

to me : she must send out for Never

trust me broke off poor Mrs. Juniper, ' if
your papa's not bringing him in here ! '

It was quite true. Mr. Juniper, seeing
that the dining-room fire looked cold and
black, ushered him into the girls' parlour,
where he knew there was always a blazing
one. He had been so long used to its litter

F 2

that he thought nothing of it, and it never
occurred to him to ask what a stranger
might think. The girls, in spite of their
dismay, took in the visitor's appearance at a
glance.

A tall, prepossessing man, some years
under thirty, gentlemanly in manner, free
and pleasant in speech, with a rather sallow
complexion, dark eyes, handsome features,
and a winning smile. They could not well
have seen one less like an elephant, or a
monkey in spectacles. He laughed at their
apologies about ' the wrong room,' and the
girls' parlour,' and was at home with them
at once.

Louis de Courcy  ' Lewis,' it had been
always called, he told them, according to
English pronunciation  was born in England
of French parents ; his ancestors had been
scared from their own land at the time of
the great French revolution, and had never

returned to it. Louis, the youngest of a
large family, had grown up in the habits
of an Englishman, and, but for his name,
none could have suspected that any other
country than this could put in a claim to
him. He had been highly educated, was
clever in his profession, and had fair prospects
as regarded money. When he reached
Cheltenham, he had found his friends therein
deep distress on account of a death in
their house, so he had come on to Worcester.


Before Mr. de Courcy had been a week
in the surgeon's house he was a favourite
with all its inmates, from Mr. Juniper himself
down to Dick, the surgery-boy. Extremely
clever, extremely eloquent, or, if
we may be permitted to use the expression
of Mrs. Juniper, ' favoured with the gift of
the gab,' he took the good-will of people by
storm, and the girls were convinced that a

more desirable man as a husband in-prospective
was not to be found. But they could
not all marry him : that was clear ; so he
was, by tacit consent, turned over to gladden
the hopes of Georgiana, the others making
themselves as agreeable with him as so many
elder sisters. To Georgiana was left all the
rights of flirting, and she did not fail to
exercise them on her own account ; de
Courcy himself proving nothing loth, for he
was fully awake to the charms of a pretty
girl.

It would be delightful for Georgy to
be settled near us : and de Courcy would
have to live quite close, being papa's
partner,' the girls remarked one to another.
4 We might spend half our time there.'

Indeed, to have a married sister thus
established they had long regarded as the
most fortunate thing that could happen to
them  always excepting their own marriage

for at her bouse they could flirt away at
leisure, secure from the discerning eyes of
Mrs. Juniper. So the girls set themselves
honestly to work to further the flirtation between
de Courcy and Georgiana. In all
their walks and rambles Georgy w r as left to
his care : in all the evening parties, and they
went to many, he was sure to be her especial
cavalier : it was to her his arm was given,
when it was given at all : it was to her
singing his voice would be heard as second.
When he came into the girls' parlour for ten
minutes' chat, the seat next Georgy w T as at
once vacated to him : more than all, when
he would be in the humour to breathe words
of tender nonsense, in reality meaning nothing,
but to a girl's heart implying much, it
was into Georgy 's ear they were whispered.
De Courcy was by nature thoughtless, careless
of consequences : he never reflected
that these attentions might appear to other

people to bear a serious meaning, or that he
might be initiating Georgiana, for the first
time in her life, into the art of love  to love
Mm.

We must now turn to the subject and to
the abode of Captain Erskine ; who exemplified
in his own person the truth of two of
the attributes accorded to Worcester generally
 poor and proud. Poor he was 
very; and from no man living within the
city's walls did exclusive notions of hauteur
more fully shine forth than from Florence's
father, Captain Erskine. In regard to
family, he stood on the very loftiest pinnacle
; his ancestors had been the highest
of the high. They were descended originally
from royalty, and in later periods had
owned lords and chancellors for cousins.
He had his pedigree, setting forth all this,
framed and glazed, and hanging up in his
sitting-room. That he was of good descent

appeared to be fact; but he boasted of it
in so ridiculous a manner as to have acquired
the name in the town, derisively
applied, of Gentleman Erskine. lie held
up his head and literally looked down upon
everyone. He was gracious with the Dean
when he met him, and condescended to
exchange bows with the prebends, but he
looked straight over the hats of the minor
canons ; of other people he took no notice.
But fortune, alas, had not been so prodigal
to Gentleman Erskine as his rank and his
merits deserved ; therefore, he lived a most
retired life. Want of means did not allow
him to frequent the society of the great ;
the little were beneath him. It was with
much pinching and screwing that he contrived
to make both ends meet, when the
expenses of his pretty little cottage, just outside
the town, containing his daughter and
their one maid-servant, were settled at the

end of each year. He had sold out of the
army before his wife died, and what his
small income really was no' one knew.

Florence, brought up in these exclusive
notions, had been allowed to cultivate the
acquaintance of none. Whether the Captain
expected a lord would drop from the
sky some clay and pick her up, he did not
say, but he certainly allowed her no opportunity
to mix with any of inferior rank,
except the Jumpers. Years back, when Mr.
Juniper was attending the Captain professionally,
he, the good-natured surgeon, pitying
the isolated condition of the little girl,
and the lack of means to afford her suitable
instruction, proposed that she should come to
his house daily, and partake (gratuitously) of
the music and drawing lessons of Georgiana.
Gentleman Erskine was too much impressed
with the advantages of the proposal to decline
it : though he considered the Juniper

family amply repaid by the condescension.
Hence had arisen Florence's intimacy at the
surgeon's, and it was now so much a thing
of habit, that it never occurred to her father
to put a stop to it. Still he did not cease to
remind Florence from time to time that
though very worthy people in their way,
those Junipers, they were persons whom she
must not, even in thought, exalt to a level
with their own sphere of life. Florence
dutifully listened : but she wished with her
whole heart that all such exclusiveness were
buried at the bottom of the sea.

Shortly after the arrival of Mr. de
Courcy,it happened that a distant relative of
Captain Erskine's, a Mr. Stanton, was passing
through Worcester, and halted therefor
a day. He was an old man, somewhat
feeble, and in descending the stairs at the
Hop-pole, then the principal inn of the city,
he fell and broke his leg. He received also

an internal injury ; and, altogether, there
was a doubt whether he would ever leave the
town again. When able to be removed from
the Hop-pole, apartments were taken for him
in Frigate Street, and there he lay still,
Captain Erskine dining and spending the
evening of every day with him. It was said
in the town that the Captain had expectations
from him, and that of course it caused
him to be attentive. Through these repeated
absences from home of her father,
Florence was enabled, unquestioned, to
spend every evening, if she so willed it, at
Mrs. Juniper's.

Oh, silly girls ! you four elder Miss
Junipers ! You have but little forethought.
You have set your mind upon Georgiana's
gaining de Courcy, yet you daily throw
into his society one more beautiful and not
less attractive than she is ! Florence was
for ever being sent for by them : and she

went. The evenings were crowing Ions
then, and sometimes all the girls in a body
would take her home, and sometimes de
Courcy himself was her only companion.
Florence had never been brought into
contact with a man so fascinating. It is
true his manners to her were not of that
free, gallant, openly attentive nature displayed
to Georgians, but there was a
subdued tenderness in them when alone
with her infinitely more dangerous. Ah,
readers ! it is the old tale : Gentleman
Erskine might impress upon his daughter
the superiority of her descent to those
around her, might descant upon it from
night to morn ; but he could not arrest this
new, all-absorbing passion that was taking
root in her heart. There is one thing makes
its way in spite of all things  love.

It is dangerous to a girl's peace, let me
tell you, aye, and to a woman's also, to be

alone with an attractive companion of the
other sex in the quiet evening hours.
Florence would leave the surgeon's pretty
early, by half-past eight or so, de Courcy
with her to see her safely home. The house
was not far off. When there, she would lay
her bonnet and scarf on the table of the
little drawing-room, and leaning out at the
open window play with the jessamine and
honeysuckle that grew round its frame ; not
that she cared for jessamine or honeysuckle
just then. De Courcy, sitting by her, would
converse upon no end of subjects  I hardly
know what, but if you have ever made one
in these stolen interviews, you can tell. He
was trying to improve her French accent ;
teaching her to speak whole sentences in the
language ; making her conjugate its verbs,
aimer amongst the rest. Florence would
begin her lesson : she was not very perfect
in the verbs, especially the reflective verbs ;



they puzzled her : 4 Je maine, tu times, il

Blaine ; nous nous ,' and there she

would stop. ' Nous nous aimons,' de
Courcy would break in, with his low, silvery
voice. It really was a musical voice,
but had it been of a crow's harshness, it
would still have been silvery to her ear.

4 Nous nous aimons,' de Courcy would
go on, Florence repeating it after him, her
heart beating, and her cheek blushing. He
could see the blushes in the soft twilight of
the evening, and she would turn her face
from him, in its sweet consciousness, leaving
nothing visible to his sight save its
exquisite profile. They would rarely get to
the end of the verb. De Courcy would
begin upon some subject more attractive :
the bright stars, perhaps, that were beginning
to shine, or the pleasant look of the
landscape as it cast forth its light and shade
in the moonlight. The cottage stood upon

a gentle eminence, and commanded an
extensive view of the lovely county, than
which none more beautiful can be seen in
England. The long chain of the Malvern
Hills bounded the landscape in the distance,
and de Courcy was wont to declare that the
clustering white houses beneath the hills of
Great Malvern looked like fairy sea shells
embedded amidst moss. The remark has
been previously recorded elsewhere : but in
truth it was often made. Thus they would
wander on insensibly to dearer subjects, he
reciting sweet verses at intervals, until they
were both rapt in a maze of poetry and impassioned
feeling. Byron's poems, Moore's
strains, both more new to the world then than
they are now ; any romance, in short, that
he could call to memory. And, during all
this time, through the French, and the verbs,
and the talking, and the poetry, he was sure
to have stolen one of her hands, and to hold

it "clasped in his. Who would give five
shillings now for the chance of Georgy
Juniper ?

One evening, either the young surgeon
had remained too long, or Captain Erskine
came home before his usual hour, but as
they stood there, Florence was startled at
the sight of her father coming up the road.
She closed the window, rang the bell in
hasty trepidation for candles, and just as the
maid  who had had sweethearts herself,
and was awake to things  scuffled them onto
the table, and de Courcy rose and stood
with his hat in his hand, Captain Erskine
entered. A ceremonious bow between the
two gentlemen, courteous on de Courcy's
part, stiff and forced on the Captain's,
and the former said good-night, and was
gone.

Why, bless my soul, Florence ! ' uttered
the astounded aristocrat, looking round to

VOL. III. G

be sure that he was not dreaming, ' it was
that French fellow of Juniper's ! '

She made some answer, quite unconscious
what it was. Fortunately the Captain
was too much ruffled to listen.

c Pray what brought him here ? '

I  he ' Florence began in her

terror and agitation, and then she could get
no further : as we all know, conscience does
make the very best of us cowards. So she
coughed a sharp succession of coughs, as if
something had got into her throat, and
turned to the window and began pulling
about the muslin curtains : anything to gain
time and calmness.

1 What's the matter with the curtains ? *
he continued, sharply. ' I ask you what on
earth brought that partner of Juniper's here?
He was actually sitting down when I first
saw him. Sitting down ! my eyes could not
have deceived me.'

1 He brought this French book of Elizabeth
Juniper's,' she stammered, indicating a
small French story-book ; and, so far, that
was true. Bessyy had lent it to her and he
carried it home in his hand. c And I was at
fault in my verbs, papa, and he offered to
set me right ! '

True again. At least, tolerably so. Ah,
soot sir, crowd Paterfamilias, groaning over
these pages and Florence's degeneracy, do
you imagine your own iris tell you the
whole truth always ? You were young and
in love once : how much did you tell in that
golden time ?

The devil take the French and their
verbs and all connected with them ! ' shrieked
Captain Erskine. ' How dare you stoop to
put yourself upon a level with a common
fellow of a doctor ? '

Dear papa said Florence, bursting into

G I

agitated tears, 'I thought it no harm to
ask him about the French verbs.'

There's every harm,' retorted Gentleman
Erskine. ' Do you forget, Florence,
whom and what we are descended from ?
There's not a family in the county can boast
the antiquity of ours ; and here I come
home and find a professional man's assistant
fitting in the same room with you  sitting !
-  quite familiar  admitted to an equality !
Some unheard-of French jackanapes, who
may never have had a grandfather ! '

I am very sorry,' murmured Florence.

Sorry ! that's not the word for it : you
.ought to be ashamed. If the individual
.-should, come up again, let the servant take
I his message from him at the door, and dismiss
him civilly  very strange that the Miss
Junipers cannot send a maid with their commissions
! '

Florence sighed, and was wisely silent.

1 You arc getting too old now, Florence,
to continue your intimacy with these
Junipers,' proceeded Gentleman Erskine
loftily. ' They were certainly kind to you,,
and all that, and when you were younger it
did not so much signify ; but it won't da
now. Don't go there again. Or, at any rate,
only very rarely ; and let the acquaintanceship
gradually drop.'

Captain Erskine stopped at that. He-supposed
he had said all that was necessary,,
for it never occurred to his exclusive mind
to suspect that his daughter could be more
tolerant on the subject of ' family ' than himself.
What if he had been in a corner of the
room that very evening, and seen all the
tacit love-making ? lie might have vanished
through the floor with the shock, after the
manner of the imps in the pantomimes.

Thus Georgiana Juniper regarded Louis
de Courcy as her own particular knight, but

so did Florence Erskine. Each believed
that she possessed his heart, his sole allegiance.
Each of them loved him in return.
Georgiana in only a light degree ; Florence
passionately and enduringly. Her intellect
was of a higher order than Georgiana's ; she
had more imagination, more dreamy sentiment
: and it is precisely in such natures
that love takes the deepest hold.

And what thought Mr. de Courcy? It
was impossible that he could remain wholly
blind to the present aspect of affairs, and he
began to doubt whether he had not got
himself into what the Americans call a ' fix.'
That it was his own fault, entirely the result
of his own thoughtlessness, was no consolation
at all; quite the contrary. He could
not fail to see that Georgiana liked him, if
she did not love, and he awoke to the fact
that he was expected by the other girls to
make love to her. He had no true love to

give her ; all his hopes were concentrated on
Florence. The course of true love never yet
ran smooth ; we learnt that in our copybooks
: in this case there seemed to be a
likelihood of its running rather rough. Why
could not Mr. de Courcy have fallen outright
hi love with Georgy Juniper, and married
her with her parents' consent, as he might
have done, and so have found his future path
all straight before him? Why should he
have remained wholly insensible (always
excepting the flirting) to her attractions, and
plunged over head and ears in love with one,
whom there was little more chance of his
winning and wearing, than there was of his
winning the stately daughter of the good old
bishop at the palace ? It must have been
fate, I think ; or, something in the air.

It has been asserted that love cannot
exist without jealousy. Love is wonderfully
sharp-sighted ; and, almost before there was

real cause, Florence and Georgiana became
jealous of one another. The elder girls were
not so soon awake to danger: but a word or
two, dropped by Georgy one day, in a pet,
opened their eyes.

They took alarm at once, lest the desirable
match they had so pleasantly carved
out should drop through ; and Florence was
invited there no more. Not an hour did
de Courcy henceforth find for himself:
walks this evening, projected walks tomorrow
evening, tea and parties always : and
lie could not escape this, unless he had
been guilty of absolute discourtesy. Besides,
he who had been so thoughtlessly
officious in seeking the society of Georgiana,
could not abruptly forswear it in rudeness
now.

Elizabeth Juniper resolved to put the
matter at rest : so the next time she was
alone with Mr. de Courcy she mentioned,

apparently quite incidentally, that Florence
Erskine was engaged to be married.

1 To be married ! ' uttered de Courcy,
the red colour flushing into his sallow cheek.

 Did you not know it? ' asked Elizabeth.
1 She is to marry her cousin, Bob Erskine.'

De Courcy reflected. He was nearly
sure he had heard Florence speak of a cousin
1 Bob.'

1 You don't know Gentleman Erskine,'
she went on. ' His uncles and aunts, his
godfathers and godmothers were princes and
princesses, or something as grand, and he
considers nobody upon earth good enough to
associate with himself and Florence. Only
to see him loom through the streets in
winter, in that old worn fur-cloak of his with
the scarlet lining, you would think all Worcester
belonged to him ! The little boys
have to turn out into the gutter, for there's
not room enough to pass him. Fancy such

a man permitting his daughter the hazard
of being addressed by any chance provincial
! Not he, you may be sure. So he
has secured for her one of the family, Bob
Erskine.'

Is this true, Bessyy ? ' asked the young
man.

True as Gospel.'

'It is strange I never heard Florence
allude to it.'

4 It would be stranger if you had. Young
ladies are not in the habit of telling of their
matrimonial engagements. I may be engaged
for all you have heard me say : so
may Kate ; or Georgy either.'

Very true,' murmured de Courcy, with
more abstraction than Bessyy liked to see him
exhibit at her latest allusion. ' Who is Bob
Erskine ? Where does he live ? '

Bob's a cousin, I tell you ; the head of
the Erskine family. He is in the Guards, or

the Rifles, or some one of those creek regiments.'


4 Can it be really so, Bessyy ? ' he continued,
still harping upon the theme. ' How
did you come to know it ? '

4 From Florence herself. The last time
Bob was staying with them, we girls charged
her with its being so, and she admitted it.
Though perhaps I ought not to have told
you  it slipped from me unawares. It must
be quite entre nous, mind you, Mr. de
Courcy.'

1 Certainly,' nodded the gentleman, unconsciously
biting the top of his silver pencil-case
into all sorts of forms.

They are not to be married yet,' concluded
Bessyy. ' Captain Erskine considers
Florence too young ; and Bob  well, Bob's
young too.'

De Courcy took it all in  like an amiable
sea-gull. Open and truth-telling himself, it

never occurred to him to suspect people of
being otherwise ; certainly not a young ladylike
Elizabeth Juniper. But though Bessyy
had exaggerated a little, she had grounds for
what she said. They had teased Florence
about Bob Erskine when he was there, had
accused her of being engaged to him ; and
Florence, after the custom of vain girls, had
laughed and simpered, but had not positively
denied it.

De Courcy felt miserable, for he had
become deeply attached to Florence Erskine,
and there grew up a sore feeling in his heart
towards her, that she should have fooled him
nearly on to telling her so.

Mr. and Mrs. Juniper were totally ignorant
of all this flirting and scheming. Had
a suspicion of it entered their minds, they
would have given the girls a sharp trimming
all round.

After this, the young doctor did not go

near Florence, and if lie heard of her being
at Mrs. Juniper's, he kept out of the way.
Thus he fell easily into the schemes of the
Juniper girls, and flirted with Georgy as
much as ever. ' Pour faire passer le temps,'
he said to himself, ' rien d'autre.' He often
thought in French.

One evening, Florence Erskine stood at
that open window of her sitting-room ; she
had thus stood for many, many evenings,
watching for one who did not come. Talk
about de Courcy's feelings being sore  what
were they to hers ? Anger, despair, jealousy,
and love by turns held possession of her.
Oh that she should have suffered herself
thus to become attached to a stranger  to
a man despised of her father  to one who
had sought her love only to fling it away in
neglect !

Would he ever come again? Would
those sweet hours, whose very remembrance

seemed to renew life and love, ever return ?
Where was he? What had she done that
he should thus desert her? As these
thoughts dwelt in her mind, flushing her
cheek, chilling her hands, agitating her
whole frame, a noise, as of carriage-wheels,
was heard, and Florence looked up. The
road passed close by the side of the cottage,
and the large, handsome four-wheeled chaise
of Mr. Juniper came in sight, the surgeon
driving, his wife beside him, and Julia and
Kate in the back seat. Following, was the
surgeon's professional gig, containing de
Courcy and Georgian a.

The party bowed and smiled and nodded
at Florence, the good-humoured surgeon
calling out something her ear did not catch.
He raised his hat as he looked at her ; and,
in the space of a minute, all trace of them,
save the dust, was gone.

She shut down the window ; she leaned

her throbbing temples upon her hands; she
gave vent to all the fierce jealousy that was
raging within her. Never, never, she told
herself in her passion, should her thoughts
revert to that man again, save with scorn.
And yet, the next minute, she caught herself
indulging in a fantastic hope that he
might come, even that evening, when his
drive was over.

But he did not come ; and the next
night passed, and the next, yet he did not
come ; and a whole week dragged itself by,
and still he did not come. Florence was as
one in a fever, tossing about by night and
by day, and finding no rest.

One evening she was passing the surgeon's
house when Mr. Juniper met her and
took her in. They were just going to tea,
and the hearty, kindly girls said she must
stop. The whole family were present, and
de Courcy looked at her keenly. She refused

their invitation, but it was of little
use ; one ran away with her bonnet, another
with her gloves, and she sat down.

What news is stirring, Florence ? ' asked
the surgeon.

'None, that I have heard,' she replied.
'Papa received a letter from my cousin
Eobert this morning. You remember him ? '

Quite well.'

'He has been exchanging into another
regiment, and embarks immediately for
India. When he comes home again he will
probably be an old man, he says.'

c Has he a wife yet, dear ? ' asked
Mrs. Juniper slyly, for she had had her
ideas of Florence and her cousin.

Bob got a wife ! ' laughed Florence.
Oh, no. He is not likely to take a wife.'

My dear, you speak rather confidently.'

I think I may,' replied Florence. ' When
Bob had to go to Spain last month, papa, in

writing, warned him against the attractions
of the ladies there, saying lie should not like
to see hin bring home a Spanish wife. Bob
answered him that he was the last man in
the world to think of any encumbrance of
the sort, Spanish or English.'

De Courcy looked up, a strange, eager
expression on his features. But, just at that
moment, Miss Bessyy was so awkward as to
tilt over the cup of tea she was handing to
him, and he had to start up and dance, for
it scalded his legs.

A servant was desired to attend Florence
home that night, but there stood de
Courcy in the hall, hat in hand. * Papa
wants you, Mr. de Courcy,' exclaimed Bessyy ;
1 he called to you as he went into the surgery.'
So the young man, with an impatient
exclamation on his lips, sought his
senior partner, and Florence left with the
maid.

VOL. III. II

But scarcely had she entered her home
when he followed her in ; and he stood
there before her, his chest heaving, and his
words coming from him impetuously.

What must you have thought of me,
Florence, all this time ? ' he began. ' You
must either have judged me to be mad, or
the most dishonourable man breathing.'

She trembled in her surprise and agitation,
and felt faint, and could not answer.
She certainly had not deemed him mad.

He took her trembling hands in his, he
looked earnestly into her changing face, and
went on, eagerly :

Misapprehension has come between us,
my love ; whether designedly or not I cannot
say. I see it all now. I was led to
believe you were engaged to be married to
your cousin  this Bob you have been talking
of to-nights

She uttered an exclamation of astonishment.

' Oh, no, no ! There never was anything
between us ; we did not care for each
other in that way. Bob is too poor to
marry  that is, too extravagant.'

4 Yet I, in my credulity, believed it. It
lias been as a dagger in my heart night and
day. For I love yon, Florence, with a deep
and holy love.'

He drew her closer to him  he whispered
words of the most endearing tenderness 
he pressed her sweet face to his. And
then they both thought  and said  that
nothing should ever part their hearts again ;
that they would live together, and for each
other, until their years of life had run into
the sear and yellow leaf.

But how many others have fondly vowed
the same, only to find them hereafter words
of vanity and vexation of spirit !

II.

THE PREDICTION.

Presently we are going to pay a clay's visit
to Malvern. Not to Malvern as it has been
of later years and now is, but as it was
nearly a lifetime ago. It was then a lovely
little spot; romantic, secluded, and beautiful.
Not a shop to be seen in it except the cake-shop
by the steep, leading down towards the
abbey, and the library. No gay place was
it in those bygone days, no rendezvous for
travellers in smart clothes, eager for pleasure
and society ; the few visitors seeking it were
really invalids, requiring pure air and peace.
It was half soothing, half painful to sit on
these beautiful hills, somewhere about St.

Ann's Well, and watch the scanty stock of
visitors toiling up one by one. Soothing to
recline there, undisturbed, on the green
moss soft as velvet, looking round at the
immense extent of landscape, so calm and
still, where the only noise to break the quiet
would be a distant sheep-bell; painful to
gaze at the pale faces of the invalids, supporting
themselves up the hill by the aid
of a stick, and to listen to their troubled
breathing as they gained the Well-room, and
held the goblet under the spring. I have
sat there many a day as a child finding
no occupation but this watching and sympathy
: picturing to my curious mind the
outward and inward histories of these sick
strangers ; wondering whence they came,
whither they were next going, where they
lodged in the village. On some bright day
the monotonous scene would be varied. A
picnic party from Worcester, all gaiety and

laughter, and baskets of provisions, would
crowd merrily up the hill, and choosing a
level, convenient spot, encamp themselves and
their baskets on it, preferring this free, gipsy
mode of enjoying a repast to the confinement
of an hotel. Sometimes the day would
pass on in almost complete solitude, no
parties and no invalids, and then there was
nothing to do but sit on the grass and build
castles in the air, or to find a fairy-tale book,
and be wrapt in a child's Elysium.

Oh the retrospect of those early days, our
life's morning ! when it seems that there is
no care or sorrow in the world, or that, if
there is, it cannot come near us ; when we
dream not that existence, the mysterious
future so eagerly longed for, can be otherwise
than it looks to us in those day-visions,
sunny as the charming landscape around,
bright as the blue sky above ! To recall life
as it looked then, with its glorious hopes and

expectations, and to dwell oh the troubled
waters that have come rushing on since,
well-nigh overwhelming heart and existence
! Let us hasten on.

Many a merry donkey-party you might
then see, toiling up the hills or cantering
about the village. We had ours. One of
them I especially remember. Twelve or
fourteen of us, careless boys and girls together,
had the donkeys hired for us, and
mounting in the village, just by the Unicorn,
cantered off for a ride towards the Link ; the
old, sober heads of the company bringing up
the rear on foot at a sober pace. The 
was open, and through it we dashed.
But out came the turnpike-man, tearing after
us, shouting and screaming. We all reined
in and stopped. What was the matter?
Matter indeed ! we had gone through without
paying. It was certainly true ; and
what was quite as true, upon searching

our pockets, those who had any, there was
not a single halfpenny to be found in one of
them ; what little we had possessed earlier
in the day had been spent in c Malvern
cakes.' In vain we represented to the man
that ' those behind ' were coming up with
pockets full of money, and they were the
paymasters. He preferred to be on the
safe side, was inexorable ; so he made
us all dismount, and took off the white
cloths from the donkeys. What cared we ?
We remounted without them, and scampered
on down the Link, leaving our astonished
old relatives to redeem the pledges. Old we
thought them then ; we should not think so
now. Lodgings at Malvern were then within
the bounds of a cautious purse, and there
was many an unpretending cottage, picturesque
without, clean within, that would let
you its best sitting-room, and its bedrooms,
for less than a sovereign per week, and give

you pleasant looks and civil attendance besides.
Go and try them now, these Malvern
lodgings. Not that any cottages are left for
the experiment : they are transformed into
glaring villas and pretentious mansions.

Few places have changed as Malvern has
changed. Many a year ago it became the
emporium of fashionable society, who flocked
to it to try the ' water cure.' Patients wrote
their experiences to laud the system ; our
greatest novelist of that day put forth an
account of the marvellous blessings it had
wrought on him, telling the world it had
made him young again. But the romance of
the place has gone for ever, and the peace of
seclusion it cannot know again.

The day's visit to Malvern was led by
Mrs. Juniper. Summer had come in. Mr.
de Courcy and Florence Erskine were
cherishing their secret love ; while the
Juniper girls, perceiving it, made up their

minds to accept the inevitable, if it must
be, and ceased to fight actively against it.
They were good, right-minded girls, after
all.

6 I don't know whether I should altogether
care to have him for my husband,
though he is very nice to flirt with,' avowed
Georgiana.

One hot afternoon the girls wrote a note
inviting Florence to tea ; there was a secret
they very much wished to impart to her. On
the evening previous to this, de Courcy had
paid a short visit to Captain Erskine's house.
And now, as Florence read the note, his impassioned
words were still vibrating in her
ears.

Of course she went : she would have gone
to the end of the earth for the prospect of
meeting him. And it was when all were
seated at the tea-table that Mrs. Juniper
began talking of Malvern.

Children,' she said, l guess what I have
been thinking of.'

1 How should we know, mamma ? ' asked
the young ladies.

Why that we are perlite people, all of
us, to have had Mr. de Courcy so long in
our house, and never to have taken him to
Malvern.'

We can take him now,' said Bessyy.

To be sure,' heartily assented her
mother. 'And you have a great treat in
store, as you've never seen it,' she added to
-de Courcy. ' How we came to neglect it, I
can't make out. Why, the first attention we
think of paying to a stranger-friend  anyone
from London, perhaps, or from far away on
t'other side somewhere  is to take him to
Malvern.' Mrs. Juniper's geographical
knowledge was rather confused, especially
as regarded the map of England and Wales.

Let us make up a picnic,' exclaimed

Georgiana. ' And take our provisions, and
dine on the hill.'

6 With all my heart,' said Mrs. Juniper.
You must come with us, Miss Florence.'

She looked up eagerly, and caught de
Courcy's glance. Oh the rapture of a
whole day spent on the Malvern Hills with
him !

When shall it be ? ' cried Julia Battle-bridge.
' When would it suit papa ? Tomorrow,
papa ? '

If you like, child. Ask your mamma.'

'To-morrow ! ' echoed Mrs. Juniper, reprovingly
; ' hadn't you better start to-night ?
You children have about as much brains as
thought  and your papa no more either, in
some things. Who is to get up a picnic at
an hour's notice ? There's the company to
be invited, and got together, and there's the
eatables. We shall want cold fowls, and
tongue, and alimode beef ; and some of you

perhaps will be calling out for fruit tartlets.
How can you have all this if you don't give
time to cook and prepare it ? '

Mrs. Juniper's remonstrance was unanswerable
; so one of the girls dismally
proposed the day after.

1 That's as bad,' corrected Mrs. Juniper.
1 Nobody goes picnicking on a Saturday.'

Finally, Monday was fixed upon. But
Florence was wondering whether she could
gain her father's consent.

Just at this period, Worcester was
indulging surprise at a matter which was
not in the common run of events. Some
two or three weeks before a stranger had
alighted in the town, had taken a lodging,
and had caused it to be circulated in privacy
and secrecy that he told fortunes. The
surprise arose not from the simple action of
his setting up as a fortune-teller, for that
was not extraordinary, but in the fact

that sundry predictions, spoken by this man
to different people, were fulfilled in, to say
the least of it, an unaccountable manner.
Several of his visitors declared, with their
eyes dilating and their hair standing on end
near the organ of marvel, that he had told
them things which no one ever knew, or
ever could know, save themselves and
Heaven. A few credulous people went
to him at first ; what they said sent
others, and the man's fame grew. He was
called the Wizard, and was never known
in Worcester by any other name. It is no
fictitious story that I am relating, though
few people can be left now in Worcester
who remember it. The better classes
went to him in secret and would not
have confessed to it for the world ; some of
them went in disguise. The man and his
curious power had become an engrossing
theme in the town ; Mr. Juniper laughingly

talked of it, and Mr. Juniper's daughters
were wild to test it.

It was this which the girls wanted to
confide to Florence ; that they had made up
their minds, after some qualms of conscience,
to consult the Wizard.

Tea over, two of them drew her into
their own parlour ; Cicely and Kate ; and
they asked her if she would not like to accompany
them.

Are you all going ? ' inquired Florence.

Not at once ; the number might betray
us, for where's there such a family of
grown-up girls as ours ? ' replied Cicely. ' I
and Georgy think of going first, and the
other three some later night. Won't you
come with us ? '

'Not I,' laughed Florence, 'I have no
faith. Wizards are clever men, I suppose ;
this one especially must be ; but '

4 It will be such fun,' urged Cicely.

c We are dying to go. They say the most
extraordinary things of him.'

6 What if you get found out ? If your
papa hears of it ? '

8 How can he hear ? ' broke in Kate.
We shall take every precaution ; wear our
shabbiest cotton frocks and garden shawls.
The maids are going to lend us muslin caps
to put on under our old cottage bonnets, so
that we may pass for servant-girls. Why,
if papa  or mamma, and she's sharper 
were to meet us in the street they could not
recognise us.'

6 1 know it will be great fun ; and if I

thought it would not be found out '

mused Florence. ' When do you go,
Cicely ? '

We have fixed on Saturday night ; the
common people are then occupied, and there
will be less chance of our meeting anyone at
the Wizard's. Mamma won't miss us; we

shall soon be there and back ; and the
others have promised to stay with her all
the time. If she asks anything, they are
going to say we are upstairs, brushing each
others hair. Do come, Florence.'

1 I don't believe in it,' returned the
young lady, wavering! v.

'Why, they say he will describe one's
future husband,' exclaimed Cicely T , ' and so
accurately, that if you were not to meet
with him for years to come, you could not
fail instantly to recognise him.'

A quick, burning colour dyed the face
of Florence Erskine. If the wise man could
indeed do this, she should know whether
she was destined for de Courcy, and her
doubts and fears would be set at rest
And yet, the next moment, she laughed at
the absurdity of her thoughts. 'Perhaps I
will go,' she said to Cicely.

Come in to tea on Sat ur Jay evening, and

vol. in. I

we will steal away afterwards. You will not
have a better opportunity. And remember,
Florence, it is no such weighty matter after
all, and if it does no good  if we don't hear
anything worthy of belief, I mean  it can dono
harm.'

6 1 will go with you ; but mind, I have
no superstition about me,' exclaimed Florence,
looking suddenly up. c I never had
faith in these things, and never shall have.
If I had faith, or any superstition, I should
stay away.'

Cicely laughed. 'That is what everyone
says.'

For when I was a child,' proceeded
Florence, speaking as if she were in a
reverie, ' a woman who pretended to the gift
<of reading the future, as this man now pretends,
foretold that if ever I should have my
"fete cast," I should be at the end of my
life.'

Kate gave a subdued scream. ' Then for
the love of heaven stay away from him ! ' she
exclaimed.

'Don't be silly, Kate,' said Florence,
lightly. ' Do you believe that such power,
pertaining only to the Most High, can be
given to mortal man ? '

Kate considered. Cicely shook her head.
1 It may be given for a purpose at times
Cicely said gravely. 'We cannot know.
Either all these " Wise Men" are impostors,
or none are ; understand, I am speaking
only of these wonderful soothsayers who are
heard of perhaps only once in a century. If
this strange man, astrologer, or whatever
he may call himself, who has set himself
down in Worcester, no one knowing
M whence he cometh, or whither he goeth,"
like the wind  if it is given to him to discern
and foretell the future, it may have been
also given to her, an ho prophesied, you Bay,

i 2

of your fate when you were a child. Do not
go, Florence.'

'And we are living in enlightened times,,
and you think it necessary to give me this
advice gravely ? ' exclaimed Florence, her
lip curling with scorn. 'Oh, Cicely ! '

But if you are so mockingly incredulous,
why go at all ? ' persisted Cicely. ' You will
not believe anything he may tell you.'

Surely you do not suppose I go to have
my fortune told ? ' retorted Miss Erskine.
Nonsense, Cicely ! If I go at all, it will befor
the fun of the thing ; and to hear how
far your credulity will allow him to dupe you
and Georgiana.'

Cicely looked at her. ' I don't think
you are quite so sceptical as you wish to
make out, Florence.'

Indeed I am.'

On the following day, Friday, Florence
proffered the request to her father  that she

might be allowed to accompany the party to
Malvern. It is eight miles from Worcester
by road. Captain Erskine chanced to be ina
good humour with himself and everyone
about him, for Mr. Stanton had distinctly
intimated to him that he was substantially
remembered in his will, and the Captain
foresaw an end to his poverty. So he
hesitated in his reply ; had it not been for
his exuberance of spirits he would have
denied her at once.

Who is going ? ' he inquired.

Mrs. Juniper and the young ladies
replied Florence, not daring to intimate that
any strangers were to be invited. 'Mr.
Juniper will ride over in the afternoon if he
has time.'

'Juniper's carriage will not hold them
all,' cried Gentleman Erskine. ' And who's
to drive it ? '

The groom will drive, I suppose ; and

they are going to have a post-carriage from
the Crown,' answered Florence. ' It is two
years since I went to Malvern, papa.'

But going with these Junipers, Florence !
I don't like that.'

I do not know any one else to go with,'
she timidly observed.

Well, Florence,' he reluctantly conceded,
'for this once you may join them.
But I do insist upon it that afterwards you
set yourself resolutely to break up by
degrees this intimacy. The girls may be
pleasant and sociable, and all that, but they
are beneath you. I am going out myself
for a few hours on Monday,' he concluded,
pompously.

Gentleman Erskine was <K)in fishing.
It was an amusement he delighted in. Sometimes
he would be seen with his rod and
basket, bearing off towards the Wear, at
Powick : sometimes in the direction of

Brentford ; sometimes in a totally opposite
route. And there, arrived at the stream, he
would sit with exemplary patience for hours
in breathless silence, staring at the float, his
line in the water, a worm at one end and a
what is it?  at the other, waiting for the
fish to bite ; his brain filled all the time with
the greatness of the grandeur of all the
Erskine.

It was growing towards sunset on Saturday
evening when three figures, attired in
cotton dresses, faded shawls, and plain straw
bonnets with huge muslin borders underneath
them, in short, looking like decent
servant-girls, stole out of Surgeon Juniper's
house, and walked quickly along the street,
turning their heads from the gaze of the
passers-by. The young ladies would fain
have waited for twilight, but had not dared
to make it so late. Fortune seemed to have

favoured them, for an old friend of Mrs.
Juniper's had dropped ill to spend the
evening with her, and she never gave a
thought to what the girls might be about ;
whilst Mr. Juniper and de Courcy were gone
to some famous medical lecture that was
being given that evening in the town.

They bent their steps in the direction of
Lowesmoor, in an obscure part of which
neighbourhood sojourned the Wizard.

4 There's the house,' exclaimed Cicely ina
whisper, pointing to one of four low ones
in a row, with green shutters and narrow
doorways. ' I and Julia were walking by it
with papa last Sunday, and he laughingly
showed it to us ; little thinking we should
ever make use of his information.'

As Cicely spoke, they halted before the
door, hesitating and deliberating, half fearful,
now it was so near, of going on with the
adventure.

4 You knock, Gcorgy,' continued Cicely.

4 Knock yourself,' retorted Gcorgy.
4 You have the use of your hands.'

'Shall we go back?' asked Florence,
some impulse prompting her.

1 Why, if we go back,' argued Cicely,
4 they will laugh at us so dreadfully. Unless
we say he had such a lot of people with him
he could not see us. Are you afraid ? '

4 I afraid,' retorted Florence disdainfully.
4 But we had better do one thing or the other,
for we may attract attention standing here.'

4 Oh, courage, courage,' exclaimed Georgians,
giving a smart rap at the door : 4 don't
let us have to say we took all this trouble
about the caps and things for nothing.'
And, before they had time to draw back,
which perhaps they would have done after
all, a boy opened the door and showed them
into the presence of the "Wizard.

lie looked as little like a wizard, that is,

their ideas of one, as he could well look.
A thin old gentleman of sixty, dressed in
black with a white cravat, leaning back
comfortably in an arm-chair: they might
have taken him for one of the minor canons
sitting at his ease after dinner. The room
had nothing in it but chairs, tables, a carpet,
the usual ordinary furniture : of all apparatus
generally supposed to belong to the exercise
of the black art, the place was void.

Is it the wrong house ? ' whispered
Georgiana to her sister.

'No, it is the right house,' said the
master, answering her thoughts, for her
words, they truly believed, he could not
have heard. ' Which of you shall I speak
with first ? Let the others take a seat.'

He motioned towards a row of chairs
that stood against the wall at the end of the
room. The girls did not take the hint ; all
three of them clustered round the table,

on which stood a curiously-constructed lamp,
not known in those days, but common
enough now. It gave a great light, and
Georgiana, shrinking from its glare, pushed,
almost imperceptibly, her sister towards the
soothsayer. He resumed his seat, and looked
at them, one by one.

Why did you come to me in disguise ? '
he asked : ' with me it avails not. Take off
those clumsy gloves,' he continued to Cicely ;
'you have adopted them that your lady-hands
may be hidden from me : but, until I
have examined those hands, I cannot answer
you a single question, or tell aught that you
seek to know

She removed the old beaver gloves obediently,
almost reverently, as if she were in
the presence of a master-spirit  perhaps she
thought she was so. Before looking at her
1 Kinds, he took out of a drawer a pack of
cards, giving them to her to shuffle and cut,

and he then placed them, one by one, their
faces upwards, upon the table. They were
singular looking ; not playing cards at all ;
each card presented a different and intricate
picture, and was inscribed with curious
Egyptian names.

Cicely waited, her hands stretched out to
display their palms. Now the wizard would
carefully examine the hands, a microscope
to his eye ; now, without the microscope, he
would study the cards on the table. Presently
he laid the glass down, and looked in
Cicely's face. The other two stood in silence,
amusement displayed on the countenance of
Florence Erskine.

You need not have troubled yourself to
come here,' he began abruptly, addressing
Cicely, ' for I can tell you little more than
you already know.'

6 What do you mean ? ' she stammered
involuntarily ; and he resumed.

'Your course will be marked with no
event of sufficient moment to be set forth
here : neither of joy nor sorrow. As a ship
sails calmly along a smooth sea, so will you
pass peacefully down the stream of your
maiden life, until its race shall be run.'

But who will be my husband ? ' inquired
the eager Cicely.

'You will never marry,' he returned.

Never marry ! ' echoed the girl.

4 No. You had a chance once, and you
threw it away. You will not have another.'

Georgiana stared in amazement at the
joke of Cicely's having received an offer, and
rejected it. But look at Cicely  at her
idowin colour : that alone will tell you his
words are true. The assistant-surgeon, designated
by her sisters as the elephant, the
monkey in spectacles, had made Cicely an
offer in secret, and she had refused it.

4 And be thankful that your life is destined

to be so uneventful,' continued the
speaker to her. 'There are two paths in
this world; one is of peace  and a very
small one it is, but little frequented ; the
other is full of thorns. To few people indeed
is it given to tread the former ; but you are
one of them.'

The dismayed and angry Cicely felt her
face growing hot and cold by turns, as she
listened to this most unwelcome prediction ;
and she only awoke from her astonishment
to hear the man addressing her sister. Georgians
had removed her gloves at his desire,
touched the cards as Cicely did, and waited.
Florence had drawn nearer, and she saw,
what she had never noticed before, that the
inside of Georgiana's hands, even to the ends
of the fingers, were completely covered with
lines; small lines, crossed, and re-crossed
again. The old man sat looking at them
with his glass to his eye.

Your fate in life will be widely different
from your sister's,' he said at length, 'for
you will meet with, and endure, more cares
than I should choose to tell you of.'

And not be married either, perhaps ! '
burst forth the indignant Cicely.

You will be married in God's own good
time,' he continued to Georgiana, taking no
heed of Cicely. ' And though your life will
be full of cares, as I now predict, there is
no cause for you to be dismayed, for it will
not be without its compensations. Your
home will lie in a foreign land, one washed
by the troubled waters of the Pacific Ocean.
lie is there now ; and you will not see him
yet : not for years to come.'

1 Not there now ? ' exclaimed Georgiana,
surprised out of the remark.

May be your thoughts are running
upon one nearer and dearer,' he rejoined :
4 but neither of you '  and he looked alternately

at Georgiana and Florence  ' will
marry him ; so let there be no more bitter
feeling between you. You have wasted by
far too much on these dreams already ;
dreams that for both of you will come to
nought. The wife destined for him is as
yet a child, sporting in her mother's home :
neither of you will ever be more to him
than you are now.'

Georgiana, in her surprise, could not
find ready words of answer. Florence was
indignant.

'You are mistaking your vocation, sir
she haughtily exclaimed. ' I did not come
here to have my fortune told.'

I will not tell it, young lady,' he quietly
replied. ' Nevertheless, I should like to be
allowed to take a closer look at your hands.
Their marks strike me as being peculiar.'

Florence's hands were resting on the
table ; she had taken off the large, uncomfortable

gloves assumed for disguise.
Making no objection, she moved them nearer
to him in scornful compliance ; perhaps incuriosity.
The Wizard examined them long
and attentively, glancing aside at the cards
from time to time in silence.

4 1 did not come to you for advice or
remark of any kind,' repeated Florence,
when he looked up.

1 So you have informed me : and I know
that all I might say would be worse than
despised. Yet, if you would listen to me,
I could save you even now.'

Save me from what ? '

Nay, why question me ? Have you not
warned me that you wish to hear nothing ? '

1 I wish to hear this,' she answered, her
tone of scorn growing deeper. ' Tell it me,
I beg of you.'

1 It will make no difference whether I door
not,' remarked the man, as if speaking to

vol. in. K

himself. ' From the fate which is threatening
you : and which appears '  bending
again over her hands  ' to be drawing very
near now '

Pray what is the fate ? ' she interrupted.


f I cannot say. I do not know.'

Florence laughed a derisive laugh. c Oh,
thank you : that is quite sufficient. You
would warn me to avoid some fate or ether,
but you don't know what ! Thank you,
sir, once again, for your valuable advice. I
have already said I did not come to seek it.'
She made him a half-mocking curtsey, and
turned to her companions, saying that as
their business was over, it was time to be
going. The young ladies turned to leave,
and the Wizard rose.

To you who did come to seek it, I have
no more to add,' he said. ' Your life,' looking
at Cicely, 'will be one of uneventful

calm, bearing for you no great pleasures
and no great pains. And yours,' turning to
Georgiana, ' will be one scene of cares and
crosses from the day you relinquish your
father's name ; and his for which you will
exchange it, is to you as yet that of a
stranger : but do not forget that the life will
bring to you its compensations. There is
nothing more ; so go back quickly, all of
you, whence you came.'

The two sisters laid, each, a heavy piece
of silver on the table, as they turned to
depart. Florence laid nothing. She was
about to follow them, when the old man
placed his hand upon her shoulder, his
strange, deep-set eyes riveting their gaze
on hers.

You have good seed in your heart,' he
said earnestly, ' and your faults are but those
of youth and thoughtlessness. I will not
have it on my conscience that I suffered you

:. 2

to pass this threshold without a warning,
unavailing though it will be. For the next
three or four days, say until Monday  or 
perhaps  Tuesday  say until Tuesday shall
have glided into the womb of the past, keep
strictly the Commandments ; break not one
either in the spirit or the letter : and then
years of happiness may yet be yours.'

And if I do not ? ' asked Florence.

I have told you that you will not. In
less than the time I have mentioned to you,
you will, I fear, have gone whither we are
all hastening.'

'If danger threatens me,' she persisted,
why not tell me its nature, that I may
avoid it ? '

In asking the question, you are but
mocking still,' he sadly said, 'but I will
answer it. That some great danger threatens
to overtake you, is certain; its precise nature
I know not: such close knowledge is not

given us. Hut it seems to me that it will
arise out of some fault of your own  I think,
self-willed disobedience. Now go : I have
fulfilled my duty.'

.He resumed his chair as he spoke, and
the three girls turned and were gone.

1 Of all canting, story-telling impostors,'
broke out Cicely, before they were well in
the street, bern* unable longer to control
her exasperation, ' that wicked old animal
beats all.'

Cicely truly believed so. For he had
said she would never be married : and if all
the wise men breathing had sworn to that,
she would not have given credence to it.

4 You don't believe in him, then ? ' said
Georgians, whose spirits seemed rather subdued
by the visit.

Believe in him ! ' retorted Cicely.  I
would give a thousand pounds, if I had
it, to be Mayor of Worcester for one day,

just to have him put in the stocks. The
wretched old idiot ! '

Florence Erskine remained silent, her reflections
full of uneasiness and perplexity.
She had maintained during the visit a mood
of contempt and disbelief : to say that she
came away in it would be wrong. The
extraordinary power with which that man,
wizard or no wizard, divined her and
Georgiana's most secret feelings, puzzled
her : their jealousy of each other, which she
had believed could be known to none ; the
positive assertion that neither of them would
marry che Courcy ; with the solemn prediction
that in a space of time which might
be counted by hours, some untoward fate
threatened to overtake her, he evidently
pointed to death ! Mixed with these
thoughts came recurring the remembrance
of that tale of her childhood  that should
she ever have her fortune told, she would beat

the end of her life : this man had now
said she was at the end of it.

1 1 told yon,' she laughed, but the laugh
sounded bitterly hollow in her companions'
oars  ' I told you what you would meet
with, Cicely ; you will believe in fortune-tellers
now! And he  he  that daring
charlatan, presumed to warn me against
breaking the Commandments ! '

Wrapping their shawls round them, and
drawing their bonnets over their faces, they
hastened through the now lighted streets,
and gained their home and entered undiscovered.


Sunday was the next day. In the afternoon
Captain Erskine went as usual to visit
his relative, and Florence afterwards took
her way to Mrs. Juniper's, the girls having
invited her. The disagreeable impression
left by the Wizard's words had faded away ;
reason had reasserted its power, and

Florence was herself again. The surgeon's
family usually attended church on Sunday
evenings, but this night two or three of the
girls had themselves excused on the score of
the heat, and stayed at home to chatter.
When Florence made ready to go home, a
servant was waiting to see her thither ; but
de Courcy, coming in at the moment, told
the maid her services were not required,
and went with Florence himself.

They walked away towards her home,
in the sultry, overpowering air, their pace
so slow as to be scarcely perceptible, she
listening to his honeyed words. Ah ! she
thought not now of the old Wizard and his
predictions ; when with him, the fulness of
her happiness was all in all. And thus conversing
with each other, they neared the
cottage. No other dwellings were near toit,
no prying eyes could be on view, and de
Courcy drew Florence's arm within his, little

conscious, either of them, that the worst
eyes of all were looking on.

At the window of his small drawing-room
stood Captain Erskine. He had come
home betimes to make certain preparations
connected with his fishing-tackle and bait
for the morning's excursion. In the midst
of which, happening to look towards the
road, he saw his daughter sauntering up
the hill, comfortably leaning on the arm
of

Of whom ? The Captain applied his
double eye-glass to his eye, wiped it, turned
it, and tried it again. Why  good saints
protect himself and his outraged ancestors !
it was that connection of Juniper's !
They have reached the little gate now, and
Florence's hand is held in his as he leads
her through it ; and Gentleman Erskine's
grizzled hair raises itself on end with horror,
and his gaze glares on his insulted pedigree,

hanging opposite, and he brings his indignant
face into close contact with the windowpanes.


Florence saw him ; and, turning sick
with apprehension, wished de Courcy a hasty-goo
d-night and went in.

Captain Erskine was by no means a
meek man, but never had Florence seen him
give way to passion so violent. A half
doubt of the truth flashed across his brain.
Florence he knew was beautiful ; while this
fellow, he half acknowledged to himself,
was what women and fools might call
attractive. But the doubt was dismissed at
once : for Gentleman Erskine's exclusive
mind could no more bring itself to suspect
Florence capable of an attachment for a
man in the position of de Courcy, than for
the begrimed official who periodically went
up his chimneys ; and indeed the ropes on
which he himself stood were so exalted, that

he could see little difference in the position
of the two, the dispenser of medicines and
the ramoneur. Oh, terrible disgrace !  she
had walked with this man (as he supposed)
through the open streets ! Worcester had
seen her leaning upon the arm of an apothecary,
that obscure emigre, who had never
known his grandfather ! How could this
stain be wiped out?

As a preliminary step, when his rage
had somewhat expended itself, Captain
Erskine forbade his daughter, in the most
positive terms man could use, to join the
party to Malvern on the morrow. She
shivered, she cried, she pleaded for a retraction
of his prohibition ; all in vain. She
might with as much effect have set on and
petitioned Jupiter.

What shall I say ? ' she sobbed. ' I told
them you consented, and they expect me.
What excuse can I offer now? '

Excuse to them ! ' he cried indignantly ;
6 the obligation is on the other side. Make
none. Or say it is my pleasure, if you
choose : but, go you do not.'

Oh, papa ! '

6 How dare you oppose your will to
mine, even in thought ? ' he demanded.
6 Are ycu out of your mind ? I forbid you
to think or to speak again about their scampering
Malvern party. I would rather lock
you up, Florence, than suffer you to join it.
Disobey me if you dare.'

When Florence rose the next morning,
her head aching and her eyes heavy, she
found a brief, stern note left for her by her
father, who had departed on his fishing excursion.
It reiterated his prohibition of the
previous night ; once more enjoining her not
to disobey him. She wrote a line to Mrs.
Juniper, saying she was unable to accompany
them, and sent it. In answer to it came

Mr. de Courcy, requiring, in Mrs. Juniper's

name, to know the why and the wherefore.
Florence simply said her father wished her
not to go ; but of his positive prohibition
and his violence she did not like to tell.
De Courcy supposed Captain Erskine's objection
might be put down to the score of
the heat, which was excessive. He treated
the prohibition lightly. Persuasion is wondrously
effective when uttered by loved lips,
and Florence wavered. She made a compromise
with her conscience, and assuring it
that no persuasion should induce her to disobey
her father by going to Malvern, she
yet consented to accompany de Courcy to
Mrs. Juniper's, to tell them in person that
she could not go.

It was then ten o'clock, the hour fixed
for starting. The party of invited friends
were assembling, all eager and joyous, the
carriages waited at the door, and Florence

was tempted on all sides : her scruples were
assailed, her somewhat confused accounts of
her father's c wishes ' laughed at.

The heat ! ' exclaimed Mrs. Juniper,
catching up de Courcy's notion. ' Well, it's
bad enough to-day, child, goodness knows ;
but it won't melt you.'

Mrs. Juniper added some convincing
arguments, their matter sensible enough,
the girls said go she should and must, de
Courcy whispered a passionate entreaty,
while the good-natured surgeon declared he
would bear all the blame and appease Captain
Erskine. And Florence, overpowered
by their persuasions and her own yearnings,
at length yielded, her conscience pricking
her, and her better judgment fighting a fierce
battle.

It was half-past ten when they started,
eighteen or twenty of them, a goodly cavalcade.
Two post-carriages from the Crown

in Broad Street, and the surgeon's chaise, de
Oourcy driving the latter.

1 You will go with me, Florence,' he had
said to her, as they all stood on the threshold
of the door. But, even as he spoke,
Georgiana Juniper mounted, without assistance,
into the front seat of her father's
carriage ; and Mr. Juniper, coming up,
took Florence's hand, and placed her in
one of the large ones by the side of his
wife.

The postboys started. Down Broad
Street, over the bridge, increasing their
speed as they bowled along the open road
leading to St. John's, and lessening it as they
came to the houses. St. John's passed, they
drove through the turnpike-gate, and were
fairly on the road to Malvern in all the heat.
None could remember such heat as hung that
day over the Faithful City.

Mrs. Juniper complained piteously.

4 What's my face like ? ' she suddenly asked.
Is it crimson ? '

8 I never saw any crimson so red,
mamma,' answered Julia, turning round
from the box, where she was seated with
young Mr. Parker, who was reading for the
Church, there being a living in his family.
He had just come down from Oxford, after
being plucked in his Little Go.

6 What a. mercy it is that we thought of
bringing that bottled perry ! ' continued Mrs.
Juniper. ' As to the ale and wine, I don't
think we ought to touch it till the sun's gone
down, unless we'd like to be laid up with
brain fever. I never felt such a dav as
this.'

Nor anyone else in this country, ma'am,'
observed young Parker. 'It is said that
strange old Wizard has predicted this day will
be a memorable one. I think he is about
right for once.'

Julia Battlebridge turned again and
glanced at Florence with a meaning look.
Florence sat silent and pale. She did not
absolutely fear the words the strange man
had said to her ; she did not positively fear
that old prediction of her childhood ; and
yet both kept floating in her brain, mingling
with the thoughts of her own disobedience,
and what would be the anger of her father.
That strange injunction of the Wizard's, bidding
her not break any of the Commandments,
had come back to her with vivid
vehemence. She had listened in resentment
to the unnecessary warning, haughty pride
buoying up her own self-sufficiency  she,
Florence Erskine, break a Commandment!
Yet, not thirty-six hours had elapsed before
she had fallen into the snare and the sin :
she had broken the one which says, ' Thou
shalt honour thy father and thy mother.'
Wick was passed, and then the old and
vol. ii r. L

most dangerous bridge at Powick, and, passing
the turnpike-gate, the horses bore up
the ascent, turning off opposite the Lion.
Soon the windings of the road brought the
towering hills in view, with their various
hues, blue, brown, green, and golden ; and
de Courcy saw that his pretty white sea-shells
were indeed houses. Away cantered
the postboys, on to Zealand Common, its
geese as plentiful as ever, leaving on their
left the turning to Macclesfield, Lord Beauchamp's
seat. The Swan, with its swinging
signboard, passed on the right, the horses
began their slow pace up the Link, noted for
its upsets, and the party reached the village
of Great Malvern at last.

They drove to the Crown, and alighted.
The carriages were to be left there. Mrs.
Juniper was shown to the pleasantness sitting-room
with the lovely view, ordered a plate
of sandwiches for those who wished to partake

of any, and said the party would return
for tea at six o'clock in the evening. It
was a programme often carried out : luncheon
on the hills ; tea at the Crown or the
Bellevue.

Meanwhile the hampers of provisions 
Mrs. Juniper's fowls and tartlets and a-la-mode
beef  were taken from the carriages,
now surrounded by a shoal of donkeys, with
their drivers  sunburnt women, boys, and
girls.

Are we to ride or walk up ? '

c Who asked the question on such a day
as this ? ' cried young Mr. Parker, looking
down from the balcony. ' Mrs. Juniper
shall have that one,' pointing to a large
strong grey donkey. 'And, I say, my
good donkey-women, give an eye to your
saddles : they have a habit of turning, you
know.'

Mr. de Courcy chose to walk : not a

i. 2

very wise determination, as Mrs. Juniper
told him, with the thermometer at its present
height. She did not know that the heat
and the climb were to him as nothing,
whilst he could thus keep by the side of
Florence Erskine. And so they commenced
their ascent of the hill, towards St. Ann's
Well, and Mrs. Juniper sincerely wished
there was a carriage-way to it, that she might
avoid the zigzag path of the jolting donkey.
In later years one was made.

They took de Courcy to an elevated spot,
and then made him turn suddenly to look
at the glorious beauty of the scene. The
amazing expanse of prospect extending out
around ; the peaceful plains, lying broad and
distinct ; the blending together of wood and
dale ; the striking contrast of the green
fields with the golden hue of the ripening
corn ; Breton Hill there, the Old Hills here,
hills everywhere ; the few mansions scattered

about with a sparing hand, giving life to the
landscape: and Worcester, fair to view,
lying not far off, with its fine old cathedral
and St. Andrew's tapering spire.

'Yes, it is very beautiful,' sighed de
Courcy, drawing a deep breath of reverence
as he lifted his hat. ' Great indeed are the
glories of God's marvellous works ! '

Mrs. Juniper's voice brought him back
to common life. ' If you'll believe me, them
silly apes are going on to the top ! '

Turning from his somewhat prolonged
reverie, de Courcy saw that the younger
members of the party were continuing their
way up the hill : the elder ones had dismissed
their donkeys and were gathered in
and about St. Ann's Well.

'Have you lost your wits, you young
people ? ' screamed out Mrs. Juniper again.

'No, mamma,' replied Bessyy, looking
round. * Why ? '

6 If you ride to the top in this heat you'll
be half dead.'

Oh, we don't care for that. We shall
be back for dinner.'

Mrs. Juniper sat down inside the room
at the Well. Some of the more active ones
began to unpack the hampers. One gentleman,
an old Worcester lawyer, who was
rather puffy, threw himself flat on the grass,
wishing he could find a breath of air. In
vain : the atmosphere was still as death.

'Decidedly those young ones will be
broiled,' he remarked.

Why, here they are, back already ! '
exclaimed Mr. Parker's mother, as she caught
sight of the white cloths of the donkeys,
slowly winding round from the heights above.
We shall see how they feel after their
broiling.'

I have heard tell of women in Ingle,'
remarked Mrs. Juniper, extending her head

outside to get a view of the broiled, c who
have voluntarily sat right down in a huge
fire to be roasted alive. I'd not say that
there can lie much choice between that and
going up the hill to-day, as them geese
were doing; especially if it was a-foot like
Mr. de Courcy.'

It was impossible to endure it,' called
out Cicely in explanation. ' I believe, if we
had gone on, we should have felt ready to
drop, as mamma said, and the poor animals
too. So that's why we are back again.'

Heavy and listlessly passed the time, in
the unbearable heat, till they sat down to
dinner, and sincerely did they wish their excursion
had been deferred to a more propitious
day. But young and healthy people
cannot be still long ; and some of them,
when dinner was over, began to wander up
the hill again. The heat was really terrible,
not perhaps quite so burning as it had

been in the morning, for the blazing sun had
gone in, but the oppressive, sultry sensation
had increased. It seemed as if they
could scarcely draw breath ; and ominous
clouds of copper colour were gathering in
the sky. Unheeding the weather, and regardless
of fatigue, de Courcy and Florence,
side by side, at length reached the top of the
hill : their companions had dropped off oneby
one, and they were alone. There they
stood some time, that he might admire the
vale of Herefordshire ; a fine prospect also,
but not equal to the magnificent one on the
other side. And then, turning to the left,
they continued their way on the hill's summit,
and gained the little round building, scarcely
larger or higher than a good-sized watch-box,
known as Lady Harcourt's Tower.

Here they entered and sat down ; and
de Courcy, drawing her to his side, whispered
once more his words of love. Eloquent

words they were, more eloquent than they
need have been, for where love reigns in a
heart, as it did in hers, eloquence is needed
not ; and she, lost in the perfect rapture of
the moment, put her compunctions of conscience
aside. She forgot her disobedience ;
she forgot the certain refusal of her father
to sanction the future ; she braved the
thought of his anger, and promised to bethe
wife of Louis de Courcy.

A flash of lightning startled them ; and,
as they rushed outside the tower, a long,
loud, frightful echo told that the storm had
begun. Never, perhaps, had a storm come
on with more rapid violence. The clouds
had gathered together, black, lurid, angry,
the forked lightning playing amongst them ;
the thunder reverberated in the hollows of
the hills ; and the atmosphere appeared as if
tainted with death, it was so still and
terrible.

'We must make the best of our way
down, Florence,' hastily cried de Courcy.

But there came, flying to the top of
the hill, five or six of their party  the
lawyer before mentioned and his daughter,
two of the Juniper girls, and a lad of fifteen
and his sister. They had been close to the
summit when the thunder commenced its
roaring, and were running to take shelter
in Lady Harcourt's Tower.

I do not like it,' interposed de
Courcy, as they were about to enter. ' We
shall be safer going down the hill than
there.'

'Not at all,' dissented the lawyer, who
was puffing with his recent exertion. ' I
remember, when a boy, a party of us being
overtaken in this very spot by a most violent
thunderstorm. We shut ourselves in here
there was a door to the place then  and
were quite safe and comfortable ; whilst in

the valley below there were two cows and a
milkmaid killed.'

Still de Courcy did not like it ; but not
one was willing to descend the hill with him
and brave the fury of the storm, preferring
the shelter of Lady Harcourt's Tower. The
situation was appalling enough. Perched on
the summit of one of the highest of the
Malvern hills, the valley beneath them appeared
as if it were miles away, and they
planted in the air, on that narrow ledge
between the earth and the sky, amidst all
the roar and battle of the elements.

The storm increased in violence ; peal
succeeded flash, and flash succeeded peal
without an instant's cessation ; the heavens
were in a blaze of light from one extremity
to the other, and a noise, as of a thousand
cannons, seemed bursting close overhead.
The poor girls were fearfully terrified. De
Courcy tried to reassure them, but could not

succeed : a scream from one, a shriek from
another ; tears and sobs ; exclamations,
that the lightning blinded and the thunder
deafened them, were mixed with murmured
prayers and dread whispers that they should
never get down again alive. Florence was
quiet, betraying less terror than the rest.
Why was it ? Because she was by the side
of him, her lover ; and so all-absorbing to
her was the consciousness of her love for him,
that other emotions, and even the dread of
danger, were partially lost in it : his protection
seemed to be all-sufficient for security,
as it was for happiness. De Courcy had
thrown his arm round her and drawn her
to his side, where she quietly stood, her
face hidden against him, and her heart
beating with its sense of bliss. Cicely
Juniper he had drawn to him on the other
side.

4 There ! ' he exclaimed, pointing to a

distant part of the heavens. It was a small
ball of fire, darting down to the earth. The
sight was momentary : before the others
could look, it was gone.

'I must say I wish we were safe down,'
exclaimed the old lawyer. ' I wonder how
Mrs. Juniper and the rest feel at the Well? '

Before the words had well passed his
lips there came a vivid flash, a terrific peal,
and a scream from Cicely Juniper, who
declared the tower was shaking. It may
have been her fancy, or it may have been
that the tower did shake with a shock of
electricity, the others felt nothing ; but
Florence Erskine had fallen on the ground
at de Courcy's side. There was no perceptible
change in her countenance, except that
it was white and still.

She has fainted ! ' exclaimed the lawyer,
stooping, and pulling at her hand.

1 It is the faintness of Death ! ' shuddered

che Courcy, bending down his ashy face, f I
fear, I fear it is death.' He raised Florence
in his arms as he spoke ; he called her by
every endearing name, unmindful now of
the ears of those around ; he pressed his
white cheeks to hers, vainly hoping to feel
signs of breath and life. But there was no
further life for Florence Erskine in this
world, for she had indeed been struck and
killed by lightning. And when the wailing
and terror-stricken party returned that night
to Worcester, carrying the dreadful tidings
with them to Captain Erskine, the ill-fated
young lady, cold and dead, had to be left at
Malvern.

It had, in truth, been a remarkable and
fatal day, as the strange man, the Wizard,
had foretold. On the following morning,
Cicely, in her horror and perplexity, disclosed
to Mr. Juniper the particulars of their
visit to this man, with his prediction regarding

Florence, and the surgeon went to
Lowesmoor at once to seek him out. But
he had disappeared ; he was gone, none
knew exactly when, certainly not whither;
he had left the city.

Mr. Juniper plied the landlady of the
house with questions. She said that on the
Sunday evening he had called her to his
presence, paid her what little claims she had
against him, with something over, and told
her he should probably leave on the morrow.
On the Monday morning while he was at
breakfast she went upstairs to make his bed,
and there she saw his little black portmanteau
ready packed. But she did not see
him leave the house, or know at what hour
he really went away.

Mr. Juniper could discover no more than
that. Yet he would have liked to do so : he
woidd have liked to put a few questions to
the man, for he felt intensely puzzled by

him. He had his reasons. This Wizard, or
whatever he was or might call himself, had
betrayed a knowledge of things which it
seemed impossible (unless by more than
human inspiration) he could have known or
learnt in any way. One instance shall be
given.

At a short distance from Worcester there
lived two small respectable farmers, related
to one another and occupying adjoining
farms. On the Saturday morning, the same
day on which, later, the Juniper girls paid
their visit to the Wizard, a daughter of each
of these farmers walked into Worcester as
usual to keep market : their baskets of
cream-cheese, poultry, eggs, and butter being
conveyed thither by a man on horseback.
They wrangled as they walked : Phillis D.
had brought her little sister with her, which
displeased Esther J. ' It's not my fault,'
pleaded Phillis, defending herself warmly.

When I came downstairs from putting my
tidings on, there was Sally all ready in her
bonnet and tippet, and mother said she was
coming with me. How could I help bringing
her, I'd like to know P I did try ; I said
the walk would be too much for her this hot
weather ; but mother answered me shortly
that the child was looking puny, and it would
do her good.'

All the same, you should have somehow
contrived not to bring her just to-day,'
retorted Esther.

For these two young women were intending
to get their fortunes told. Having
heard the marvellous things said of the
Wizard, they wished to benefit by his divinations
as well as other people did, and
perhaps get promised a husband apiece in
some flourishing young farmer. The visit
had been planned for the previous Saturday,
but a matter prevented its being carried out ;

vol. in. M

so they meant to pay it to-day without fail :
if it were put off yet for another week, the
Wizard might have left Worcester. Of
course Sally's presence was a tremendous
drawback, but they must make the best
of it.

By dint of selling their excellent wares
cheaper than usual, they were at liberty
before one o'clock and bent their steps from
the market house down to Lowesmoor ;
promising Sally dire punishment for all time
to come if she ever breathed a word of what
she was about to see and hear. But these
warnings, administered in going through
Silver Street, produced an effect which they
had not calculated upon. The child was
seized with intense terror. She had heard
of the Wizard, and entertained a most unreasoning
fear of him, fully believing lie
would eat her up at sight, as the wolf ate
up Eed Hiding Hood. Sally was a pretty

little girl of ten years old, constitutionally
timid, and she burst into sobs and cries.
The young women shook her and slapped
her. Finding that did little good they
presently, after turning out of Silver Street,
bought her some gingerbread nuts and
bell's-eyes  which in a degree soothed the
tears if not the fear.

The Wizard was alone when they entered.
While he proceeded to tell the fortunes
of the elder girls, the little one was
placed on one of the chairs at the end of
the room : but she wept aloud, and trembled
from head to foot. Once it seemed to distract
the Wizard : he paused in what he was
Baying, and looked around.

4 Who is the child t What is she crying
for ? '

4 She is my sister, sir, and she was afraid
to come here;' answered Hills D. ' Sally,
you naughty girl, hush your sobs directly.

Who do you suppose is going to harm
you?'

6 There is nothing here to harm you, my
child,' spoke the wise man, gently. ' Don't
be afraid.'

This address seemed to have quite an
opposite effect from the kindly one intended.
Sally, after a moment's silence from dumb
terror, went on sobbing more than ever.

At the close of the interview, when the
young women were departing well satisfied,
for they had each been promised fairly good
luck in life as well as a husband, the Wizard
rose and put his hand upon Sally's shoulder.

6 Cry on, my child, for you have good
cause to do so,' he said to her with sad impressiveness.
' You will reach home to find
you have lost the best friend you ever had in
life.'

They took their journey homewards, the
young women by far too much engrossed by

their own future to pay heed to the wiseman's
parting words to the child, or speculate
upon what they could mean. Sally was
promised a new doll if she held her tongue.

Esther J/s gate was the first reached,
and she passed through it. Phillis and Sally
D. went on to their own house : which they
found full of distress and confusion. Their
father was dead. The farmer had dropped
down that morning in a fit of apoplexy.
Poor little Sally had indeed lost her best
friend in life  her father.

Now the reader must make the best and
the worst that he can of this. It is strictly
true.

Mr. Juniper did not know what to make
of it. He was at the form when the
daughters got in, having been the medical
man sent for : and Phillis, beside herself
with excitement and grief, repeated to him
what the Wizard had said to the child. Mr.

Juniper considered it strange. It might, of
course, have been only a saying at hazard
curiously fulfilled. The only other solution
he could think of was  that the Wizard
must in some way (there had been time)
have heard of Farmer D.'s death : yet this
seemed unlikely. Some other unaccountable
sayings of the man had previously become
known to Mr. Juniper, and he determined
to pay him a visit the following week. But,
as already stated, he went too late ; the man
was gone.

Louis de Courcy never flirted with
Georgy Juniper again ; from that hour he
was a wiser and a graver man. The
death of the ill-fated Florence had its effect
upon all, and henceforward the girls
were less careless, more staid and sober.
Georgiana married in the course of years, and
went over the seas with he r husband ; and
poor Cicely's wedding never came at all.

Her sisters, one after another, quitted the
parent home ; but she was left. And in
latter years Cicely grew to think her own
life was the happiest, for it was free from
care.

Never again was the Wizard heard of in
Worcester. Whence he had derived his information,
that spirit of divination which he
really appeared to possess, none could, or
did, pretend to speculate  for indeed this
record of him has been no fancy sketch.
Those who were living at the time, witnesses
to the stir he caused, are dead and gone ;
and a few of a later generation remain yet
in Worcester to retain remembrance of the
Chronicle.

'Forest Semper Fidelis Civitas.'

PART THE FIRST.

It had been a lovely day for the season 
October : and the slanting beams of the
evening sun fell on one of our fair English
scenes. The pretty village of Ebury, with
its long straggling street, lay in a hollow ;
its church and graveyard flanking it at one
end, a large white villa standing at the
other. Beyond and around extended a
goodly landscape ; woods and dales, smiling
green plains and rippling streams, fields
from which the grain had been carried ;
farmhouses dotted about, with a goodly
mansion here and there ; while almost at
hand, a mile off, say, rose the chimneys and

walls of Ebury Hall, the residence of Squire
Hard wick.

Leaning over the small iron gate that
gave admittance to the lawn and flowerbeds
in front of the white villa, w T as a girl in
the sweet springtime of early womanhood
Miss Emily Bell. The setting sun shone
upon her, lighting up her face and the becoming
simplicity of the dress she wore, a
summer muslin sprigged with pink  for the
days of monstrosities in the shape of attire
had not come in by many a year.

About twelve months before, this house,
empty then and to be let on lease, had been
taken by a stranger from London, a Mr.
Bell. Of course Ebury, being one of our
aristocratic country places, at once began to
question who and what Mr. Bell was, or had
been. It was soon known that he had been
a member of the Stock Exchange, and had
made his fortune.

Ebury idlers flocked to call upon them
at the white villa. They found Mr. Bell a
companionable, intelligent man, Mrs. Bell a
quiet, delicate woman, and Miss Emily, the
eldest of six children, a very charming
girl. Mr. Bell went up to London for two
days every week, to attend the meetings
of a bank of which he had become
director, which left Miss Emily more at
liberty to follow her own devices, as regarded
the flirtations with her various
admirers.

Lingering at the gate this evening, her
eyes went roving down the short avenue to
the high road that crossed it, as though
looking for anything that might pass along.
She had not long to wait. There loomed
slowly into view the large, high phaeton of
Squire Hardwdck, the Squire driving, a
gentle, pleasing girl sitting beside him, his
only daughter, and a groom in the handsome

Hardwick livery attending them.
The Squire had drawn up his horses to a
walking pace, the better to talk to a young
man whom he had overtaken in the road.
This was James Ailsaa, a slender, gentlemanly,
honest-hearted young doctor of
four-and-twenty years, who had come to
Ebury some months before to temporarily
assist Mr. Wilmington. Emily Bell, watching
them go by, did not seem to like the
sight.

6 What a shame ! ' she cried. ' She's
always talking to him ! '

6 Emily,' called out a voice at this
moment, that of her sister Margaret, from
one of the windows, ' do you not know weare
at tea ? Mamma says you are to come
in at once.' And, when the very last lingering
sound of the phaeton wheels had died
away, Emily Bell turned from the gate and
crossed the lawn to obey.

She was certainly a wondrously pretty
girl  and she knew it  with her brown
glossy hair, the damask colour of her cheeks,
and her laughing eyes, dark as an April
violet. As to her figure, it was for ever
being compared to all things that were light
and beautiful, a sylph and the Venus di
Medicis; but to those who had really seen
Medicis' goddess, the former comparison
appeared by far the more suitable.

But what a flirt was she !  and how
greedy of admiration ! How many lovers
had she drawn into her net only since she
had come to Ebury? First, there was Mr.
Grey, a handsome young fellow who came
clown for the shooting season ; next followed
young Campbell, an out-and-out flirt himself;
then came the sentimental walks with
that tall college man, who was reading with
the Eeverend Mr. Tuck's curate  much
reading he did ! no wonder he got plucked

in his Little Go; and now for some time
past it had been James Ailsaa. And all
these without reckoning Tom Hard wick,
who had been her admirer, in an off-hand
manner, all along.

It was a great pity James Ailsaa fell so
madly in love with her. He was told to
beware of her blandishments, and how she
would probably serve him ; how many she
had already loved, or professed to love ; and
then thrown them coolly off. But the
warning came too late. Besides, he did not
believe it : to him she seemed an angel
upon earth, and he could not credit aught
against her. In face and manner and speech
she was of those sweetly innocent girls who
take men's hearts by storm. There are
such girls, as their victims know to their
cost. No, he would believe nothing. So
the young doctor was left to his fate, and to
the seductions cf Miss Bel].

It could have been only for amusement
that Emily began the flirtation : he was a
quiet, retiring man, attractive in person and
manners ; but as to anything serious, his
position, with her high notions, would forbid
that  a surgeon's assistant, and without prospects.
It was understood that he had no
money, and was quite friendless ; so many
of those who had money, and influential
friends also, rather slighted him, Tom
Hard wick for one.

Mr. Tom Hardwick  the name was pronounced
Hardie, and some people wrote it
so  w r as the second son of the Squire, and
had a fortune in his own right. He was the
fashion at Ebury ; the village beholding with
indescribable admiration his daring feats and
scrapes, his lavish expenditure of money,
his blood horses, his scarlet hunting-coats.
His time w T as passed in fox-hunting, steeplechasing,
horse-racing, dog-fighting, boating,

VOL. III. N

shooting, and so on : and, although Miss
Emily Bell chose to favour him, she was not
in love with him. But, wanting good
birth herself, she looked up to the house
of Hardwick, who traced its pedigree back
to royalty and was connected with some of
the best county families, with undue reverence.
Hence chiefly arose her patronage of
Mr. Tom ; and never better pleased was she
than when strolling through the village with
that gentleman talking nonsense at her side,
the village rustics bowing and curtseying to
him at every step : marks of respect which
Mr. Tom would carelessly acknowledge or
wholly neglect, according to the leisure his
gallant speeches to Emily allowed him.

The morning following the evening
above spoken of, Emily Bell left the 
and retired to her own chamber,
fastening the door after her. She then unlocked
a small cabinet, which formed the

middle of a low. old-fashioned walnut-tree
set of drawers, and drew forth a bundle of
letters. They were from James Ailsaa.
Other packets were there, tied up with blue,
pink, or yellow ribbon, and were the epistles
of former lovers, but those Emily did not
disturb. She opened three or four of James
Ailsaa's, glancing at their contents here and
there : and we may do so with her. She
was fond of reading over his letters, they
spoke of passion so true and deep. Probably
she cared for the writer more than she
admitted to herself.

Oh, thank, thank you ! to the last hour
of my life will I thank you : whatever maybe
the fate of my love, and whether it shall
hereafter be accepted or rejected, still will I
thank and bless you. Your little note has
relieved me from suspense almost intolerable.
A thousand fears were in my heart ; a dread,
almost as of death, was on my soul, that you

N 2

might indignantly spurn me, and fling back
my letter with scorn.

Do you remember, Emily, that morning
a few weeks ago, when we were walking
together on the Breton road, and our conversation
turned on the subject of love?
Do you recollect how confused I became,
breaking off in the middle of a sentence, and
that after an interval of silence I dropped
the topic for another ? Can you guess the
cause of that embarrassment?  did you
guess it then ? That my passion for you was
so great I could not speak on the subject of
love to you without the most painful agitation
 without betraying more than I then
dared.'

This is an extract from another :

6 Oh, Emily, dearest Emily, how can I

support the rapture which has throbbed

within me since last night ? You confessed

I was not indifferent to you  your head fora

few moments was pillowed on my bosom
those kisses which I snatched still seem
to linger on my lips. I did not attempt to
go to rest ; it would have been useless ; I
sat in my room and watched the stars till
morning. I lived over and over again our
interview. I dared to conjure up visions of
the future, our future. I pressed my hands
to my temples, and asked if this taste of
paradise were not a dream. I ask it still.
I repeat to myself, " She loves, she loves
me ! " Ought not our lives to be one continued
breath of thanksgiving to Heaven for
having given us the power to taste on earth
such all-perfect bliss? '

Here follows another :

Why, my love, do you mention forebodings
so gloomy ?  Why should we separate
? It is true my position now is not
such as would warrant my demanding you
of your father ; but, Emily, know you not

what such love as mine can dare to plan and
effect? Rely upon it, though we see not
the means yet, my fate in life shall not bean
obscure one  it shall be such as to justify
my asking you to share it.'

Then this :

Emily, Emily, I am tortured nearly to
madness. You tell me you do not like
Hard wick : then why show him these marks
of favour ? Last night, when we left, I was
close to you ; my arm was ready ; yet you
passed me and took his. It cannot be that
you did not see me : or if you did not seeme,
you do not love. I look for you : I see
but you : at a distance, before another's
eyes could possibly distinguish your form,
my heart tells me it is you. Oh, Emily, if
your love were but a tithe of what mine is,
you could not so act.'

And this extract is from the last letter
she had received from him :

6 Forgive, forgive me, my only love. I
did not mean to reproach you : I will believe,
Emily, I am too exacting. I will believe,
no one knows how willingly, that your
heart is wholly mine. But if you knew
how I love, what I suffer for you, you
would not wonder that I cannot bear
even the semblance of an attachment to
another.'

Emily sat contemplating the characters
of this last letter, and a smile and a blush
stole over her face. Were they the tokens
of love, or only of triumphant vanity ?

Presently she reached her writing
materials, and began a note to Ailsaa, ' My
dearest James.' Whilst thus occupied,
some one tried the door of the room, and,
finding it fastened, knocked loudly against
it. Emily scuffled all signs of her employment
away.

What do you w T ant now? ' she pettishly

asked, admitting her sister, vexed at being
interrupted.

What do I want ! ' repeated Margaret,
resenting the question. ' The room is as
much mine as it is yours ; I may come into
it when I please. Look here, Emily ; Tom
Hardwick is downstairs. He has brought
an invitation from Mary for us to join them
in a picnic to-day ; they have visitors at the
Hall, and are at a loss for amusement.'

6 That is not Hard wick's voice ! ' exclaimed
Emily, listening.

That is James Ailsaa's. Tom Hardwick
is in the drawing-room with mamma,' answered
Margaret. 'Ailsaa has come up to
see baby. Mind you don't tell him about
the picnic, Emily, or we shall have him
pushing himself into it.'

You are more likely to tell him than I
am,' cried Emily, as she ran downstairs.

Mr. Ailsaa was in the hall. His pale,

sweet-tempered countenance lighted up ashe
advanced to greet Emily.

James,' she whispered, as he threw his
arm round her for a momentary embrace,
while they were yet alone, ' do you know
anything of the party they are planning for
to-day?'

8 What party, my love ? '

8 Some picnic of Mary Hard wick's. Will
you come to it ? '

I have no invitation.'

4 Nonsense about an invitation. It is in
the open air, you know, and you can join us
as if by accident. James, you must come.'

I will brave all for you, Emily,' was his
answer. ' They have called me an intruder
a trusted forward of myself. No matter ;
the comments and ill-natured remarks of
the world fall on my heart as the idle wind
whilst I have the consciousness of your love
to make its sunshine.'

II.

6 1 do believe that is James Ailsaa coming
along ! ' exclaimed Miss Margaret Bell, as
the merry party were gathered a-la-gipsy on
the outskirts of Beech Wood. 'Who can
have told him we were here ? '

Oh, he ferrets out our plans himself,'
retorted Tom Hard wick ; c he has the deuce's
luck and his own too at that underhand fun.
Treat him with the contempt he deserves,
all of you, and don't speak to him ; do you
hear, Mary ? '

Mary Hardwick heard, but she possessed
too much good feeling and sense to heed her
brother's counsels. James Ailsaa was a
thorough gentleman, except perhaps in

pocket, and that he was not so regarded
by everyone was only owing to Mr. Tom
Hard T sick's incessant ridicule and abuse of
horn. Tom Hardwick was as inferior to
Ailsaa as one man can well be to another ;
but people are ever ready to take part with
the great and powerful, and Mr. Tom Hardwick
held sway at Ebury.

Ailsaa came up, and, after greeting the
circle, was invited by Miss Hardwick, somewhat
timidly, to sit down and join them.

6 Enjoying a stroll in the woods this fine
day, and so popped upon us unawares ? '
broke in Tom Hardwick, in a sarcastic tone.

4 1 am on my way to pay a visit to Mrs.
Hudson,' answered Ailsaa. And he spoke
truth.

Then you have come a precious deal
out of your way,' retorted Hardwick,
coarsely. ' It is nearer to go by the road.'

'I was going by the road,' returned

Ailsaa, ' but crossed the field on seeing you
here.'

He looked at Emily, seeking for a glance
to recompense him for the painful position
to which, for her sake, he had subjected
himself, sensitive and unobtrusive as he was
by nature ; but he looked in vain. The ban
was on him  he was a despised man ; and
Emily  proud, vain, and little-minded 
followed the example around her, and noticed
him not. Miss Hardwick felt deeply for his
situation, and she talked to him pleasantly
and offered him cake and wine  which he
declined. Presently he rose from his seat
to pursue his way. Mary Hardwick asked
him if he would come to the Hall in the
evening ; they should probably be having a
little dance. He thanked her, and accepted.

The others were leaving their places to
disperse about the wood.

6 Emily must have told him we should

be here,' exclaimed Margaret Bell to Tom
Hardwick, who was standing with his back
against a tree, ' for as to his seeing us from
the road, it's all stuff.'

1 A lie,' uttered Mr. Tom, politely. ' If
he had ten telescopes, and set 'em all up in a
line, he could not see over to Beech Wood.'

Emily pretends to dislike and despise
him, but I saw '

As to my sister Mary, she's turning daft,
I think  encouraging the fellow as she does.'

c 1 saw him kiss Emily the other day,
and slip a letter into her hand,' continued
Margaret, unheeding the interruption.

You had better take care what you
say,' exclaimed Tom Hardwick, growing
very red in the face.

1 It is truth,' answered the young lady.
I was peeping at them through the greenhouse
window.'

1 Does he often write to her ? Does she

write to him ? ' asked Tom, quite purple
with rage.

6 I can't tell whether she writes to him
said Margaret, ' but she is always locking
herself in our bedroom, and two or three
times I have looked through the keyhole,
and seen her scuffling the ink away. Don't
you tell her I said this.'

Oh, bother ! ' answered the gallant
gentleman, ' I'll have it all out at once, one
way or the other. Where is she now ? '

Upon James Ailsaa's leaving he struck
through the wood path, his nearest way
then, to Mrs. Hudson's house. But scarcely
had he gone many steps when Emily stole
after him, and called him, softly, by name.
He turned and met her.

6 James,' she whispered, ' are you going
to stay with us ? '

1 Am I going to slay T he replied, laying
a painful stress upon every word. ' Emily,

if your heart can truly say that it wishes me
to do so, I will ; and bear in silence.'

Dear, dear James,' she said, tears rising
to her eyes, ' why do you speak to mein
so cold a tone  why do you look so
reproachfully at me ? '

6 Have I not cause? ' he rejoined, painfully
excited ; but even then he gave way to his
enduring love, and clasped her hands tenderly
in his.

Why do you permit Hardwick to appear
on these most familiar terms with you ? ' he
remonstrated. ' To all but me he must be
looked upon as your lover.'

James,' she said earnestly, raising her
head from his shoulder, where it had been
lying, ' indeed you need not be jealous of
him. I have no love for Tom Hardwick ; I
have scarcely any liking for him. Believe
me, dear, dear James.'

He did not answer ; but he pressed his

burning forehead upon hers. She felt its
throbbing.

At this moment the voice of Mr. Tom
Hardwick was heard. Emily started from
her lover ; and, pressing his hand in token
of farewell, stole silently away amongst the
trees.

Who is that in the wood, Emily ? ' exclaimed
Tom Hardwick, as she emerged from
it. ' I heard voices.'

The wind, perhaps,' returned Emily,
carelessly. ' Or  I was humming a tune to
myself; you may have heard that.'

4 Don't trouble yourself with any more
falsehoods,' rejoined Hardwick, dashing into
the subject without ceremony ; ' you were
talking with that presuming fool, Ailsaa. And
as I don't mean to stand this nonsense about
him any longer, I shall acquaint Mr. Bell
with the fact that you and he have been
writing love-letters to each other.'

 Oh, for Heaven's sake, say nothing to
my father ! ' cried Emily, well-nigh startled
out of her senses.

I am glad you have the grace not to
deny it,' interrupted Hardwick sullenly.

Yes, yes, yes,' exclaimed the agitated
girl, striving to repair the unlucky admission
she had made : ' I do deny it.'

1 Emily, I will not be trifled with, so you
may spare yourself the attempt. You shall
either promise to be mine, and keep to it, or
I will give you up at once.'

This was the nearest approach to an
oner Emily had ever received from Mr. Tom
Hardwick, and she felt somewhat overpowered
with bewildering sensations. On
the one hand was James Ailsaa, with his
steadfast love, which she knew would shield
her from every harm in life ; on the other
was the tempting prospect of becoming a
daughter-in-law of the lofty old squire ; and
vol. I it.

this last was irresistible to her aspiring
heart.

It shall be one of us, not both,' resumed
Harclwick, who was in an ill-humour, and a
very resolute one : and little did Emily guess
that he had no intention whatever of marrying
her or anyone else ; for he could not
afford it. ' And here I swear, 1 continued he,
that if you ever again attempt to speak to
that beggar, Ailsaa, I will take no further
notice of you whatever : if we meet in the
streets I'll pass you ; should you call at my
father's house, I will go out of it whilst you
are there.'

6 Oh, Tom, why do you put yourself into
this dreadful passion ? I declare to you that
I hate James Ailsaa.'

Then you will deliver up his letters to
Mr. Bell'

For the love of goodness, don't mention
the subject to papa,' she implored ; ' lie is so

strict with us. He has written me one or
two nonsensical letters, I won't deny it. I
will give them up to you, Tom, if you will
not tell papa. But you won't read them ? '

Not I. I'll make them into a packet,
and dash it into Ailsaa's face

Don't talk so wildly, Tom : you know
Ailsaa is no coward. If you want to get up
a quarrel, I will have nothing more to say to
you, any more than to him ; and I will keep
the letters.'

Well, well, Emily, I'll promise you tolet
the beggar alone ; and he shall know
nothing about the letters. I shall come for
them tomorrow morning, mind.'

Very well,' said Emily, deep in thought.

There's my darling girl,' he added,
stooping to salute her cheek ; ' and when
I can afford to marry, you shall be my
wife.'

Emily made no reply to this exceedingly

gracious promise. She was thinking what
excuse she could make about the letters, for
as to giving them up to him, that she w T as
determined never to do. ' Who in the w T old
can have told him that we correspond ? '
she soliloquised. c If it should come to be
known in Ebury, I think I shall go mad 
everyone so despises Ailsaa. If Tom Hardwick
had sent me love-letters now, I should
not care who knew it : they might take and
publish them in the newspapers if they
liked.'

The carpet-dance took place that evening
at the Hall ; but James Ailsaa did not appear
at it. He was some miles away, attending
upon one of 'Mr. Winnington's patients.
With the morning, Mr. Tom Hardwick
arrived at the white villa, according to his
promise. Emily met him on the lawn.

Oh, is it you ! ' she exclaimed, as if
surprised.

1 I said I should be here early,' he
answered. ' I have come for the letters.'

1 The letters !  oh, I have destroyed
them.'

 You have done what? ' he asked.

'I feared you might send them to Ailsaa,
as you threatened,' she said, ' so I thought it
safer to burn them.'

1 It is a lie ! ' exclaimed Hardwick,
angered out of his good manners. 'Emily,
I am not to be done in this way. Give me
the letters, or, by my honour, I will go
straight to your father.'

I have destroyed them,' she replied
tremblingly. ' I thought it the wisest and
safest plan. It is of no use being angry, the
thing is done. But for the future, Tom, you
may trust me, for may I never stir from here
if I don't hate James Ailsaa; and I'll never
speak to him again.'

What further romancing misrht have been

indulged in by Emily was cut short by
her mother's calling to her ; so she ran in,
leaving Mr. Tom Hardwick standing where
he was.

Will you walk in ? ' called out Mrs.
Bell to him.

'No, I thank you,' he answered sullenly.

And, turning away, he had not left the
gates many minutes when he encountered
Mr. Bell.

'Good-morning, Mr. Tom. All well at
home, I hope.'

c I was coming in search of you, sir,' said
Hardwick, speaking in a very excited manner,
and taking no notice of Mr. Bell's salutation.
'An unpleasant matter has come to my
knowledge, which I think you ought to be
made acquainted with. That upstart, penniless
fellow, Ailsaa, has taken upon himself to
make love to your daughter, and, unless a
check is administered to him, he may be

drawing her into a mess ; a promise to marry
him, or some such madness. Girls are such
simpletons.'

c My daughter ?  Emily ? ' cried the
astonished man.

Emily, of course. He has been sending
her love-letters. She has a whole heap of
them, I daresay.'

Take care what you do say, sir,' advised
Mr. Bell.

1 Oh, it is quite correct, I assure you, sir.
1 thought I would give you a hint of what
vas going on,' continued the friendly Tom,
and do as I would be done by. If it were
my sister, for instance, I should hold myself
under eternal obligations to the man who
had enlightened me. There's no harm in
love-letters, of course, when they come from
the right man. But Ailsaa is just '

Thanks, thanks, my clear Mr. Hard wick
exclaimed Mr. Bell, wringing his hand, and

tearing indoors at a great rate, too much
excited to listen further.

Emily was in her bedroom, having taken
refuge there until Tom Hardwick should be
safely gone. When she saw her father enter,
instinct told her that something was wrong.
Shutting the door, he, in a voice that spoke
of suppressed passion, asked for the letters
which she had received from James Ailsaa.

The startled girl stood transfixed before
him : every vestige of colour forsook hei
countenance; the sickness of terror flew to
her heart.

Do you hear rne, disgraceful girl ? ' resumed
Mr. Bell, who was very strict witt
his daughters, and had believed them to be
models of good behaviour. ' Give me this
letters without trouble, or I will open you:
places and search for them myself.'

It was too stern a moment for equivocation.
Emily faltered out that they were

there, and pointed with her hand to the
cabinet in the chest of drawers. It was
safely locked.

4 Produce them.'

She stood still as a post.

Produce them,' repeated her father.

She shivered and trembled, holding the
back of a chair for support ; but she opened
the cabinet and took out the letters. Above
them lay the epistle she had begun to Ailsaa
the previous morning, and had thrust away
in her haste when interrupted by her sister.
It of course came forth with the others,
but Emily, hoping she was not observed,
pushed it back.

4 What paper is that?' cried Mr. Bell.
What are you trying to put back ? '

She faltered out something about ' some
poetry.'

1 Give it to me with the rest, Emily ; how
dare you attempt to trifle with me? You

may have your poetry again when I have
looked at it  if it is poetry.'

He took it, with the letters, from her
hand, and the first words that caught his
gaze were, 'My dearest James.' Two or
three lines of little import followed  the
cream of Emily's letters was seldom at the
beginning. Mr. Bell tore the paper into the
smallest particles, and with a glance of unutterable
rage at Emily, advanced to the
window and scattered them to the winds.

Are these all ? ' he demanded, pointing
to the packet of letters which he held in his
hand.

Yes ; all,' faltered Emily.

6 Open the cabinet again, that I may see
for myself,' returned Mr. Bell. 'I cannot
trust you.'

Papa,' she cried, clasping her hands in
terror, lest he should execute his threat, and
so find that Mr. James Ailsaa had not been

her first correspondent in the love-letter line,
on my word, on my honour they are all.
I never received so much as a sentence or a
scrap of paper from him besides. The letters
themselves will prove that they are all.'

It was impossible to doubt that she spoke
the truth, and Mr. Bell stalked out of the
room with the letters in his hand. Emily
sank into a chair and sobbed aloud.

Somehow or other, all this gossip went
forth to the public, and with innumerable
exaggerations. Also the account of Mr.
Bell's stormy interview with James Ailsaa,
when the latter w r as compelled to give up
Emily's letters to him, in the midst of some
contemptuous taunts at a paltry, penniless
surgeon's assistant presuming to think of
Miss Emily Bell. That James Ailsaa, sensitive
and shrinking, did not repose just then
upon a bed of roses may be easily understood.


The next news Ebury heard was that
Ailsaa  but there's something to relate first. -

It was one of the most wretched nights
that November ever turned out  cold, rainy,
and boisterous. A light shone in the curtained
window of Emily Bell's chamber ; she
herself was there, wretched as the weather,
having been ordered, ever since the explosion,
to keep within it. This was a severe
punishment for Emily, whose whole existence
lay in the exercise of her flirting talents.
She was sitting dull enough, in a low
rocking-chair, which she had fetched out of
the nursery, swaying herself backwards and
forwards, wishing bedtime had come, when
Margaret would be up, or that the term of
her punishment was at an end, when a
rattling at the window, as of gravel thrown
at it, made her start from her chair. A few
moments, and the summons was repeated, so
she softly opened the window.

It is James Ailsaa,' whispered her heart.
He drew close under the window, and asked
her to come down to him for a few moments.

1 What a request, James ! '

It is the last I shall have to make you,'
he said. 'I am going away for ever.'

You are joking.'

The last few days have been no joke forme,'
he answered, ' or such as to incline me
to joking. I repeat to you, Emily, that I
am going ; and it may be that this is our
last meeting on earth.'

She left the window, and, stealing down
the stairs, ran out at a back door, and so
round the house until she came in sight of
James. He drew her underneath some trees,
where they w r ere shielded from observation,
and partially so from the pouring rain.

'James,' she said, 'I am doing very
wrong in thus coming down to you, because
you know our intimacy is at an end.'

6 1 do know it,' lie replied bitterly, c and
it is not for the purpose of clandestinely
inducing you to renew it, or to act contrary
to the wish of your parents, that I am
here.'

Emily, arrant flirt that she was, felt
rather disappointed, for she had fancied Mr.
James's nocturnal visit had that tendency,
and would have experienced much gratification
in refusing the boon ; or, to speak more
correctly, in being asked it.

Hear me,' said Ailsaa. ' I have loved
you, Emily, with no common love : few
have loved another in this world as I love
you. If you possess the same affection forme,
any fate will be more tolerable to you
than hopeless separation ; and the very
thought of marrying another must be hateful
to you. Now listen. I would not fetter
you by word or deed ; but if your heart will
whisper one hope to me, I shall go forth a

different man : life will be as bright to me as
all is now dark.'

1 do not understand you,' replied Emily.
We are separated, therefore what hope can
I give you ? '

The hope that when my efforts have
been crowned with success ; w 7 hen I shall
have acquired fame, fortune, that even you
might be proud to share, I may return and
woo you.'

It is so long to look forward to ! ' washer
answer, delivered in a grumbling tone.

That is sufficient,' returned Ailsaa sadly.
1 It has convinced me of w T hat I feared
And, had the light permitted, Emily might
have seen the despair that stole to his countenance
; but she could not have seen it, in
all its bitter sickness, as it then and there
seated itself upon his heart. ' Had you put
the question to me,' he continued, 'and
required me to wait until our hairs w T ere

grey, and our steps feeble, I should have
knelt and blessed you. Did you love as I
love, this request of mine would have made
a heaven of your days ; it would have held
forth a hope to cheer the whole of existence.'

But what would papa say ? He '

'I think you do not quite understand
me interrupted Ailsaa, in the same tone of
sadness, which indeed characterised his conversation
and manner through the entire
interview : ; I said I would not fetter you  I
would not encourage an act rebellious to
your parents. But the secret feelings of the
heart cannot be controlled or hindered, even
at the command of those we are bound to
obey, and I knew that if your misery were

what mine is  in thus speaking to you

no matter.'

He stopped ; he was greatly agitated.

'You take things too much to heart,
James.'

1 1 will not do so in future,' he exclaimed,
almost vehemently. ' In the years to come,
I will struggle with all my dearest feelings,
and uproot them, one by one. I must
struggle to uproot your image, Emily, which
has entwined itself round my very heartstrings.
Heaven knows it will be a bitter
task.'

'But if I were to give you this promise
'

I I did not ask for a promise,' he interrupted.


Well, this hope then : it would be of
little use ; it is not like a regular engagement.'


It is too late  I do not ask it now,' he
hastily answered,  for it would be valueless,
unless precious to you as to me. I thought
perhaps it might have been so ; against my
fears and my better judgment I thought so.'

I I fancy, James, these dreams of yours,

VOL. III. P

about fame and fortune, are very chimerical,'
was her next remark.

They may prove so now,' he answered,
'wanting the spur that would have urged
them on to realisation.'

6 1 am sure I wish I could see you rise
to  to  to be Physician to the Queen.'

6 1 have now only to take my leave of
you,' he said, leaving her wild, and perhaps
not very sincere, thought unanswered.

'But why do you go away, James, in
this hasty manner ? Where do you propose
going?'

Anywhere. I have no plans. No
matter what part of the globe I am in,
so that it be not Ebury. I  I  heard a
rumour to-day  I heard the same yesterday,'
he continued, jerking his sentences out,
as if in too much agitation to speak in even
periods : ' that I am given up for Mr. Tom
Hardwick.'

4 It is not true,' she exclaimed fiercely ;
but Ailsaa shook his head.

4 Why did Tom Hardwick interfere between
us, Emily?  why should he, of all
people, make it his business to seek your
father, and tell him that I loved you ? And
you, why should you have promised to give
up my letters to him ? '

 Who told you that ? ' cried Emily, her
face in a glow.

1 1 gathered it from his own foolish boasting
; from the unjustifiable remarks he made
in the presence of your father, for the few
minutes that during our interview he was
present. They had might on their side ;
while I '

'No one ever believes half Tom Hardwick
says,' she stammered. ' And I declare
to you, James, that I hate the sight of
him.'

4 You are flattered by his attentions ber

2

cause his family is good and he holds some
sway in the neighbourhood,' resumed Ailsaa ;
but these recommendations are only negative.
They will not compensate for qualities
that he lacks ; and beware, Emily, lest
in looking after the shadow you lose the
substance.'

4 You need not give me this advice T
James ; I tell you Tom Hard wick is nothing
to me.'

4 Farewell, Emily,' he murmured, wringing
her hands. ' You know not the value
of the heart you have rejected ; the spirit
you have broken. Be assured that few men
love as I have loved. I would have guarded
you in my bosom ; shielded you from harm ;
warded from you unhappiness. May the
husband you shall choose cherish you as I
would have done. Farewell.'

She burst into tears, and laid her head
upon his shoulder, as formerly. But the

passionate embrace that would once have
rewarded her was withheld now  with violence
to his own feelings, but still withheld.
He knew now that she did not love him ;
at least with a love worthy to mate with
such as his.

'Farewell, Emily,' he repeated, as he
raised her gently, w r hen the paroxysm of
her emotion was over; and, with another
wring of the hand, he was gone.

As James Ailsaa gained the road from the
short avenue he came upon Miss Hardwick.
Attended by a servant, she was on her way
to spend the evening with some friends.
She stopped when she saw him.

'Is this true, Mr. Ailsaa?' she asked, in
her soft, gentle voice  ' that you are quitting
Ebury ? '

4 Quite true,' he answered.

4 But why ? '

Ebury has not treated me altogether

well on the whole,' he answered, after a
pause. ' I do not care to remain in it.'

We shall be sorry.'

6 No, no ; not anyone will be sorry forme.
At least, scarcely anyone. Let me
say " Good-bye " to you now, dear Miss
Hardwick, and thank you  thank you  for
all the considerate kindness that you have
ever shown me.'

Tears filled Mary Hardwick's eyes ; it
was dark, and he did not see them. And,
their hands lingering together in a warm
pressure, they parted.

James Ailsaa, scarcely conscious of what
he was about, turned into the plantation
that flanked one side of Mr. Bell's house,
dwelling upon his recent parting with Emily.
His misery was great ; far greater than they
can form any idea of who have not gone
through a similar ordeal. In the full sunshine
of his love, he had once thanked

Heaven for bestowing upon us the power
to taste of such unutterable bliss ; he might
now be grateful for the strength that enables
us to support and survive its contrast.


The events of the last few days had been
a severe trial to horn, but what were they
compared with that night's interview, when
the conviction that she had never loved him
forced itself upon his soul ? He pressed his
brow upon the rough bark of the trees ; he
walked hither and thither without aim ; the
weather was uncared for in his agony of
mind ; the hours also elapsed unheeded.
But at length he was drenched to the skin,
and began slowly to make his way home.
The church clock was striking twelve as he
reached Mr. Winnington's door.

He had forgotten his latch-key, and
knocked gently, but the knock was unanswered
; and in looking up at the house, no

light was to be seen : the curtains were
drawn closely before the windows, and total
silence prevailed. Everything seemed to
intimate that the family and servants were
in bed ; and he, unwilling to disturb them,
and caring little, in his present frame of
mind, what became of him, retraced his
steps and walked about until morning. Soon
after twelve o'clock the rain had ceased, but
the wind continued boisterously high. His
frame shivered and shook with cold, but it
remained uncared for.

It was about half-past seven in the morning
when he again waited at the door of the
surgeon's house, which stood in the middle
of the long street, and at the same momenta
horse was heard advancing at a brisk trot
from round the corner. Mechanically Ailsaa
turned his eyes towards the sound.

It was Mr. Tom Hardwick, booted and
spurred, and trimly attired. He was going

to the steeplechase, full of congratulation
that the wretched night had turned out so
fine a morning. He saw James Ailsaa standing
there, and looked full at him, but did
not condescend to speak. A gesture of contempt,
not noticeable perhaps by one uninterested,
but strangely conspicuous to
Ailsaa, escaped him. Drawing his back
proudly in and his head up, with unsuppressed
triumph, he averted his eyes from
his outwitted rival and rode on.

James Ailsaa was stung almost into
madness by the haughty glance and consciously
triumphant bearing, and spoke
passionate words aloud as lie looked after
him.

I wish to God he may break his back ! '

Tom Hard wick, followed by his groom,

continued his way to the Crown and Thistle,

an inn situated about two miles from Ebury,

and close to the ground marked out for the

steeplechase. Here he found some friends
awaiting him, and more were assembling,
steeplechasers like himself, those to be
engaged in the day's contest having agreed
to breakfast there, with a select assemblage
of supporters. The horses had been sent on
the previous day.

This steeplechase had been a 
event, not only by Mr. Tom
Hardwick and his sporting friends, but by
the neighbourhood in general. Everyone
had something staked on the great event,
from the old squire's cool thousand, to Miss
Emily Bell's pair of gloves. But the interest
it excited, above that of all other steeplechases,
past or to come, was caused by the
dangerous nature of the ground to be runover.
None, save men deep in their cups,
as had been the case in this affair, would
have been so wild as to fix upon it. Five
horses were to run, their owners to ride.

Six men had been at the convivial meeting,
whence the scheme had its origin, but one,
young James Gaunt, had in the meantime
gone to London, and was now lying there
dangerously ill. Many a one, after surveying
the ground, turned away with a shrug
of the shoulders, wondering if the parties
were already tired of life. Earl Nunnery,
the old lord-lieutenant of the county and
father of Viscount Chiselem, came in haste
from one of his distant seats, to endeavour
to prevail upon his son to renounce the
danger. But the young sporting men
thought it looked bravely fine to persist in
their contempt for the danger, and would
listen to nobody.

Viscount Chiselem's Daylight, Honourable
Charles Easthope's Tartar, Mr. T.
Hardwick's Fire-and-fly, Mr. Prynne's Brown
John, Captain Flanagan's .
Of these horses, Tartar was the

favourite, and most bets were laid on him 
except with the ladies. They, according to
custom, only saw the merits of the horses
through the attractions of their riders, and
their little betting was free enough upon
the gentlemen favourites, these being, very
generally, Lord Chiselem and Mr. Tom
Hard wick. Emily Bell's gloves were of
course red-hot upon Fire-and-fly.

III.

Everyone had gone to the steeplechase,
man, woman, and child ; not a soul was left
at home to take care of the village, which
might have run away with itself without
hindrance. Even Miss Emily Bell, in spite
of her disgrace, had been conveyed thither
by her parents in the hired carriage. They
may have deemed it safer to take her than
to leave her.

One exception there was, James Ailsaa ;
he was in no mood for steeplechases. His
preparations for leaving Ebury were completed
; he was in haste to depart ; but he
had promised Mr. Winston to remain
until the latter should return from the scene

of the day's sport, to which he was about to
drive his sister.

The gig waited at the door, and the
good old surgeon, who was going on
for sixty years, lingered in the surgery
with Ailsaa, expressing again, for the tenth
time, his regret that James should leave
him.

6 1 know you only came to me as a temporary
thing when I was ill, James ; I know
that. But we have got on so well together
that I had begun to hope you would have
stayed with me always.'

James Ailsaa sighed as he answered :
6 Thank you for all your kind thoughts,
dear Mr. Winnington, but it could not be.
I cannot remain at Ebury.'

8 Are you ready, Charles ? ' cried little
Miss Winnington, putting her face, encased
in its white curls, into the surgery ; ' we
shall be late.'

THE UNHOLY WISH 22

1 Quite ready, Matte,' said the doctor
cheerily ; and they drove off together.

The morning wore on, wearily enough
to James Ailsaa ; but at length he saw signs
of people in the distance.

They were coming back at last, not one
or two stragglers only, but in groups. Ailsaa
had been watching for them at the door a
long time, and he stood and watched them
still. A horseman clattered past riding as if
for his life. It was the butler at the Hall.
Following close upon him came another ;
and this proved to be young Chewton, the
lawyer's son. He saw Ailsaa, and pulled up.

Have you been there, Ailsaa ? I did not
see you.'

< No.'

This is a horrible thing, is it not ? '

'Has there been any accident?' demanded
Ailsaa.

c Oh, have you not heard ? Tom
Hard wick's killed.'

Ailsaa, strong man as he was, shook in
every limb. He drew back and leaned
against the door-post for support.

Is he dead ? ' he gasped.

He w T as not dead when I left,' replied
young Chewton, 'but they say he cannot
survive the night. His back is broken'

Ailsaa shuddered, as if something supernatural
were creeping over him.

Why, Ailsaa, the news has startled you
indeed ! You are as white as a corpse.'

There was no reply.

One would think you were going to
faint,' continued Mr. Chewton. ' Can't you
speak ? Are you insensible ? '

At that moment he was, to all outward
things. A prayer was ascending from his
heart to Heaven for forgiveness for the
sinful wish he had that morning uttered as

Hardwick passed him, and which had been
so strangely fulfilled.

1 By the way, Easthope has got his arm
smashed  or his leg ; I forget which,' resumed
Chewton.

You forget which ! '

1 I really do. Minor accidents are lost
sight of before such a calamity as Hardwick's.
The poor horses, for instance  nobody
has cast a thought towards them.
Chiselem was thrown twice, and got
stunned ; and Flanagan was flung into
Briar Pond. I don't know whether he's out
yet.'

But Tom Hardwick ! ' uttered Ailsaa, incapable
of listening to any other topic ; ' I
would sacrifice my own life to save his.'

6 What a vain wish ! ' exclaimed Chewton.
'By the way, have you heard that
James Gaunt's dead ? '

James Gaunt I was he there ? '

vol. in. Q

No, no ; news came this morning to
the Manor House. He died in town

Oh, goodness me ! there never was
such a steeplechase before ! ' squeaked little
Tuck, Mr. Winnington's new apprentice, ashe
ran up. ' Mamma need not have said I
shouldn't go, for fear I should get a liking
for steeplechases. I'll never go to another.
It was dreadful, Mr. Ailsaa. You should
have heard Tom Hard wick's groans. If you
please, sir, can they set a broken back ? '

Not exactly,' said young Chewton, answering
for Ailsaa, as he rode away.

Master Tuck was right. There never
had been such a steeplechase before, at
least within recollection. Lord Chiselem
was thrown and picked up insensible ; Mr.
Easthope's shoulder was dislocated, and Tom
Hard wick's back was broken. Two of the
horses were killed, one was lamed, and another
had disappeared altogether.

PARI THE SECOND.

I.

It was a very considerable time after Mr.
Ailsaa's departure, which, not having been
announced previously to the general public,
came upon Ebury as an electric shock, ere
the steeplechase faded from its everyday
thoughts. Indeed, it left behind it consequences
to last as a memorial ; rendering it,
to the inhabitants, a sort of national event
to date from, such as William of Normandy
conquering England, the rebellion of Cromwell,
or the murder of Perceval.

To the astonishment of all, Tom Hardwick
did not die. He lay for many, many
months in agony, and partially recovered, to

Q2

remain a helpless cripple. In this suffering
state he continued, hoping for no improvement
on this side the grave, to whatever
period his life might be prolonged. On fine
days he was placed in a hand-carriage and
drawn about the village  the once brilliant
Tom. What a change! His old friends
and associates would call in at his lodgings
for he had left the Hall, as will be seen 
or walk by his side as he was drawn about,
relating all the scraps of news they could
pick up, to cheer his spirits. Emily Bell
would often join him, though without hope
of flirting  all idea of which for him, poor
fellow, was at an end for ever. Neither did
Emily herself seem to pursue the amusement
so strenuously as before. Whether it was the
sudden departure of James Ailsaa that affected
her spirits, or the accident to Tom, or
that other young men w T ere growing shy of
her, could not be decided, but from about

the time of the steeplechase very little was
seen of Emily's flirtations.

Now it is very probable that what has
further to be related of James Ailsaa will
appear too romantic to be true. The reader
may say it will do for fiction ; not for real
life. But this tale is one of real life ; as some
of the actors in it, living yet, could testify.
All its circumstances are simple facts, even
to that rash and sinful wish of James Ailsaa's,
as his rival rode past him on the morning
of the steeplechase, and its startling fulfilment.


Closely following upon Ailsaa's departure,
Mr. Bennington received a certain application
from Sir John Gaunt. Sir John was
lord of the manor of Ebury and the adjacent
lands. He was owner, by purchase, of
no inconsiderable portion of the village, the
house occupied by the Bells forming part of
it. Sir John Gaunt was a widower, and

had recently lost his son James, his only
child, a young man in the first bloom of
life. He had come of age only the year
before, which had been celebrated by rejoicing
at their residence, the Manor House
little did anyone think then how soon his
course would be over. His name was down
to ride in the steeplechase, poor fellow, but
he did not live to see it run. Sir John had
himself long been in ill-health, and the grief
caused by his son's death augmented his disorder.
His physicians ordered him to seek
change of scene in travel ; and the purport
of his application to Mr. Winnington, who
was an old friend of his, was to inquire if
he knew any medical man who would accompany
him as travelling companion and
medical attendant.

Mr. Winnington at once thought of
James Ailsaa; he greatly esteemed and respected
him, and he knew that he could

most conscientiously recommend him to Sir
John Gaunt, as being in every way qualified
for the post. The old bachelor surgeon felt
indignant at the treatment Ailsaa had received
in Ebury ; perhaps he saw no objection
to the writing of love-letters ; perhaps
he thought the whole blame lay with Miss
Bell, who had certainly began the flirtation
herself, and had drawn Ailsaa on. If
he and she must have been separated,
argued the doctor one day to a whole conclave
of village gossips, it might have been
accomplished kindly and quietly, without all
that publicity and holding-forth of Ailsaa to
general contempt and ridicule. Tom Hardwick's
doing ?  well, perhaps so ; it was
cruel enough, whosesoever doing it was. Not
that he would have had them marry offhand,
confident of living upon air or practice
to come  no such thing. But they were
both young, and might have waited. Ailsaa

was a clever man in his profession, and had
years before him.

However, Mr. Wilmington spoke in
Ailsaa's favour to Sir John Gaunt, who
accepted the recommendation ; and, all preliminaries
being arranged, they left England
together.

The steeplechase killed one person,,
eventually, if not at the moment. Poor old
Squire Hardwick, broken-hearted at the accident
to his favourite son, was, in less than
six months afterwards, laid in his grave.
And then came the change in Tom's fortunes.
He had completely run through his own
money ; the estates were entailed upon the
eldest son, and the portion settled on the
younger children was small. The Squire
scraped together what he could for his unfortunate
son, which was not much, his reign
having been too profuse and liberal to leave
many resources at his command, and with

his dying breath left him to the care of his
heir. And that heir, so far as real assistance
went, neglected the injunction.

Mr. Francis Hardwick, now the squire,
took up his residence at the Hall. Since he
had come of age he had chiefly lived away
from it. Mary remained there as its mistress,
for her brother was unmarried. It was still
to be seen what sort of a life he would lead,
whether a heedless and extravagant one, as
his father and Tom had done, or one of a
more rational description. Humour said that
he was close-handed ; but if so, quoth the
village gossips, he was not a true Hardwick.

Ebury returned to its usual quietness
doubly quiet now that Mr. Tom Hard wick's
freaks could not enliven it  and for sometime
nothing occurred worthy of note. It
did at last, however. Mr. Bell got speculating
with his money, and  as a natural
sequence  turned it into ducks and drakes.

Ebury awoke one fine morning to find that
Mr. Bell was mined : nothing remained, it
was understood, but the income of Mrs. Bella
very small one. This sort of misfortune
usually brings household affairs to a climax,
and it did so with them. They sold off their
furniture and departed for London, where
Mr. Bell died.

For some years afterwards little was
heard of them, but at that period Mr. Winnington,
having a vacancy for an apprentice,
wrote to Mrs. Bell, and offered, with a kindness
of heart that did him honour, to take
her youngest son without premium  an offer
which was most thankfully accepted. In
those days a boy intended for a surgeon
began his studies as an apprentice. So the
lad arrived at Ebury  a tall young shaver
of fourteen : with a capacious forehead and
lanky black hair.

Meanwhile, during these years, Sir John

Gaunt remained on the Continent, Ailsaa
always with him. Sir John could not bear
the thought of returning to his desolate
home. He had grown wonderfully attached
to his companion, in whom from the first he
saw, or fancied he saw, a resemblance to
his lost son. The name, James, was also
the same. But, apart from this, when he
became thoroughly acquainted with Ailsaa,
it was impossible for him to be otherwise
than attached to him.

Sir John struggled on with his incipient
malady; sometimes he would be better,
sometimes not ; gradually, however, growing
worse upon the whole, and at length he
returned to England  to die. But he did
not get further than London. Ailsaa remained
with him to the last  to part with him now
would have been to Sir John almost like
parting with life. That dread moment was
not long in coming for him.

When Sir John Gaunt's will was opened,
it was found he had left most substantial
proof of his regard for Ailsaa. All his property
in the village of Ebury, consisting of
houses and land, was bequeathed to him,
with a considerable sum in money, and other
property of value.

Now here was a strange thing. That
young man, humble assistant to the country
surgeon, had been driven from the village
in contempt but seven years before, and
now he returned to them a rich man, a
landed proprietor, superior in position to
most of those who had scorned him. In
truth, it was passing strange.

It was as a dream to Ebury, or one of
those electric shocks talked of before, when
the house formerly occupied by the Bells
was put into repair, preparatory to James
Ailsaa's taking up his residence there. All
the village flocked to see the furniture

before its owner's arrival, from the Squire's
newly married lady to good Miss Winnington's
cook, who had grown old in
her service ; for this romance in real life
stirred everyone, gentle and simple. Ailsaa
had chosen it in London, and sent it down :
plain and unobtrusive it proved to be, to the
intense disappointment of the gaping visitors,
but with a quiet elegance pervading the
whole. But when James Ailsaa first arrived
he went direct to the Manor House, where
he had business to transact and would
remain for a few days ; being one of
the executors to the will. The Manor
House, with the rest of Sir John's property,
was left to a distant relative, the only one
he had. Ailsaa was little altered, looking
scarcely, if any, older ; his pale complexion
was somewhat browned by travel, and his
manners were unassuming and gentlemanly
as usual. Not a whit of assumption or self-consequence

had his good fortune brought
him.

In the afternoon of the second day, a
cold one in January, he walked over to his
own house, and spent an hour or two in
looking round and about, giving directions
for this and that to be altered or done. It
was growing dusk when he went away. In
the road, at the end of the avenue, a young
lady was passing with a swift step in the
direction of the village. They stopped
simultaneously and their hands met.

6 James ! ' she exclaimed.

And then Miss Hard wick, for she it was,
blushed warmly.

Mr. Ailsaa, I meant,' she added ; ' I beg
your pardon.'

Oh, don't do that ! ' he cried, almost
with a touch of pain. ' If you only knew
how grateful these little remembrances are
to me ! Why, do you know,' he continued,

slightly laughing, ' I believe I was about to
say, " Is it you, Mary ! " boldly enough, you
would have thought. Have you been quite
well during all these years? You look
thin.'

All these years ! ' she repeated dreamily.
1 Yes, it is more than seven years since you
left.'

4 You have kept count of them, then ! '

Again Mary Hardwick blushed. 'My
father died soon afterwards,' she said. ' I
have kept count of the lapse of years since
that'

Their hands dropped apart; hitherto
they had been linked together. ' It is
rather curious,' remarked Ailsaa, ; that we
should meet upon precisely the same spot on
which we parted. Do you remember ? '

Oh, yes. But not more strange than
that you should come back to Ebury. I
never thought you would do so.'

'Neither did I  then. Time changes
our circumstances  and ourselves too.
After the lapse of a few years we can
hardly believe ourselves to be the same
people that we were before. Ay, I have
come back to the old place in my old

Mary smiled.

4 Indeed I feel old ; very old compared
with what I did when I left it. I am thirty-ones


And I am twenty-eight,' laughed Mary.
6 That's old, if you like, for a woman. But
I must go she broke off; ' I am on my way
to take tea with Miss Winnington.'

'I think I will walk with you, if you
will allow me,' he said. ' I have not yet
seen her, or my good old friend, her
brother.'

So they turned away together.
And a few more weeks went on.

II.

In the sitting-room of a small residence on
the outskirts of London sat Mrs. Bell with
her three daughters. She wore widow's
weeds still, but the children were in colours.

It was the dusk of evening ; and Emily
was seated on a low stool, holding a letter
in her hand, which she looked over by firelight,
sometimes laying it on her lap as if in
thought, and then again recurring to it.

I do think I should like to go, mamma,'
she said at length. ' Mary, be quiet.'

Head the letter to me again, Emily,'
said Mrs. Bell. * I only skimmed the heads
of it this morning, I was so busy with the
pudding, and I have had no time to look at

VOL. III. R

it since. Mary, my dear, you heard your
sister tell you to be quiet. Don't dance
about, but sit down and listen.'

Emily stirred the fire into a blaze, and
began to read :

Dear Mamma,  I really did not think it
could have been five months since I wrote,
till your letter came to remind me last week,
and I am quite ashamed not to have answered
your two last, and Miss Winnington
is very angry about it too ; but indeed, dear
mamma, I have been very busy lately. Mr.
Winnington says I get on very well. I bled
a person the other day ; it was that barber's
man round the corner; he who used to
be always drinking, you know. He fell
down in a fit close by our door, and they
brought him into the surgery. Mr. Winnington
and Mr. Tuck were out, and I tried
the lancet and used it famously, and saved

the man's life. It's reckoned, I can assure
you, a great feather in my cap, down here.
I'm going; into tooth-drawing next ; but that
requires muscle and nerve, and Mr. Tuck
says I am deficient in both at present. Mr,
and Miss Wilmington are so kind ; what do
you think they did, mamma ? Because my
best clothes were getting shabby, they have
had a new suit made for me as a present 
such beauties ! But I think the trousers were
made out of some of Mr. Winnington's old
ones, for he used to wear a pair just like
them  grey stripes. I have a message
for you from Miss Winnington  won't it
make Emily dance ! She sends her respects
or love or something of that sort, and says
she wants to ask you a favour. It is that
you will send Emily to Ebury to visit her
for a month or two. She says the pleasant
springtime is close upon us, and she would
like her to come immediately. She begs

B 2

you to excuse her writing herself, because
her eyes are so much dimmer than they
were, but you are to write back to her in a
w r week at furthest, and say which day Emily,
will be with us. And Mr. Wilmington says
I am to tell you Emily shall be well taken
ware of, and that he will take no excuse,
Do let her come, mamma.

And now I have some news to tell you,
Do you remember that Mr. Ailsaa, when I was
a little boy, who was with Mr. Winnington,
and went travelling afterwards with Sir John
Gaunt? Well, Sir John Gaunt is dead, and
has left a fortune to Mr. Ailsaa, money and
houses, and heaps of things. He left him
a carriage and a pair of horses  they are
bays, so tall !  and lots of plate and books.
Mr. Tuck says if it were him he should sell
the musty old books, and he should buy a
second pair of bays to match the others, and
drive four-in hand. He thinks Mr. Ailsaa

would look first-rate with the ribbons in his
hands, and four blood horses before him.
And our old house is left to him, mamma,
and Mr. Ailsaa is come back here, and lives
tit it. It is done up beautifully, and he has
made great improvements. I like Mr. Ailsaa
so much ; he gave me half-a-sovereign on
Easter Monday because it was a holiday.
He does not forget, you see, that boys like
to have something in their pockets on a
holiday.

1 1 am sure Emily will find me grown.
And tell her if she should want to be bled
while she's here, I can do it for her, and I
know Mr. Tuck will take out her teeth for
nothing. Good-bye, dear mamma ; give my
love to all at home, particularly to Mary.
1 Your affectionate Son,

'Edward Bell.

Pes.  I forgot to say that poor Tom

Hard wick told me to remember him to you
whenever I wrote. He is very well, considering,
and often goes about in his hand-chair.


'Pes.  the 2nd.  I fear you will think
me a very slovenly writer with my postscripts,
but I must tell you I had a ride on
Mr. Ailsaa's saddle-horse yesterday. He
knows I am a good rider, so trusted me on
him. It is a splendid animal, high spirited
and quite thorough bred, but very gentle,
and coal-black. His groom rode behind.
I don't mean on the same horse. Fancy
me careering past all the houses on horseback,
followed by a groom! Mr. Tuck
says, when he is established he shall buy
just such another steed : but he has not done
walking the hospitals yet.'

'What a ridiculous letter Ned does
write ! ' exclaimed Miss Margaret Bell, vexed

that she was not its subject. ' Mary, you'll
set yourself on fire.'

6 1 do not think it a ridiculous letter at
all answered Mrs. Bell ; ' few boys of fifteen
could write a better. But about this invitation
to Emily ? If we can manage the expense,
I should like her to accept it.'

'Would the expense be very much,
mamma ? ' asked Emily.

It is the dress, you see, Emily,' answered
Mrs. Bell, as she withdrew with
the troublesome Mary. 'We must think
about it.'

'I daresay that ancient simpleton, Miss
Winnington, has some romantic notions
about bringing you and your old lover,
James Ailsaa, together,' exclaimed Margaret,
who generally managed to pick up a fund of
notions herself, romantic and shrewd also.

'Don't talk so ridiculously,' retorted
Emily. ' I wonder how he and poor Tom

Hardwick hit it off together now,' she mused,
with a half-smile.

'You may well say "poor Tom Hardwick,"
' observed Margaret, whose ill-temper
was more marked than it used to be ; ' he is
poor in every sense of the word. How
strangely he and Ailsaa seem to have changed
positions ! '

'That accident was a wretched misfortune
for him. I w r under, Margaret, if Tom
would have ever married.'
'Married?  no!' returned Miss Margaret.
' It is absurd to think of it. How
could he, poor as he turned out to be  how
could he have thought of a wife ? After the
squire died, his income scarcely allowed him
to keep the man-servant who waited on him.'

He must have entered into some means
of getting money,' said Emily ; ' some profession.'


Not he,' answered Margaret. ' He

would have entered into debt, and so into a
prison perhaps ; that's what Mr. Tom Hardwick
would have entered into. Nonsense !
It was a strange delusion with some of you
flirting girls to suppose that Tom Hard wick
would ever marry.'

Emily sighed. The heart alone knoweth
its own bitterness. For this man she had
.given up James Ailsaa.

It was late on a fine spring day when
the stage-coach that conveyed the passengers
from the railway station to Ebury arrived
at the village. Mr. Wilmington and Edward
Bell stepped up before it had well stopped 
for Emily Bell sat there.

1 Edward,' cried Mr. Winnington, ' you
stay and see to the luggage  only two boxes
you say, my dear. My sister is all impatience
to receive you, Emily ; take my old
arm, child.'

The bustling surgeon stepped forwards
briskly, and in a few minutes lie was thundering
at his door, and his sister flying to
open it.

But we will pass over the meeting, and
all the gossip of the evening. Emily was
never tired of inquiring after old friends, or
of listening to the history of the many
changes that time had brought to Ebury.
They kept telling her about James Ailsaa:
although to that subject she answered little ;
but she did ask about the improvements he
had been making in the house and grounds.

4 You will have an opportunity of judging
for yourself tomorrow evening, Emily
observed Miss Winnington, 'for we are going
to take tea there.'

6 But am I invited ? ' cried Emily, the
colour rushing into her face at the recollection
of how she and James had last parted.

No, no,' laughed Miss Winnington, ' we

did not tell him you were coming : we mean
to give him a surprise.'

But was it alone owing to the anticipated
1 surprise ' that Emily felt a tremor stealing
over her when they entered Mr. Ailsaa's gate
the following evening ? He saw their approach
from the window, and stepped out
to meet them.

4 A young friend of ours, whom we have
taken the liberty of bringing,' cried the
surgeon.

It was nearly twilight, yet James Ailsaa
recognised her as instantly as if they had
been under the sun at noonday. There was
no embarrassment visible on his face ; the
slightest possible flush rose for a moment,
and then left his features pale and placid as
before. He held out his hand to her, with
his own sweet smile, and welcomed her to
his home.

c I thought you were to bring Edward

with you this evening,' Ailsaa remarked, as
they sat clown to tea, which Miss Winning-ton
made.

c No,' answered the surgeon, ' Ned is at
home. He remains to run up for me in
case I should be wanted. Do you know,
Ailsaa, I am thinking of giving up my profession.'


Indeed ! '

6 The fact is, I am growing too old to do
justice to my patients. Some who ought to
receive a visit from me twice a day get only
one ; for, what with old age and rheumatism,
there are times when my legs will not runover
so much ground as formerly.'

Why not take an assistant ?  or partner
? '

I would take a partner tomorrow,
James, but the difficulty lies in finding one
to my mind. Had fortune not placed you
above it, I should have tried hard to get

you. Had you only come back a poor man,
Ailsaa ! '

1 1 will become your partner if you wish
it,' observed Ailsaa quietly.

I was speaking seriously,' returned the
surgeon.

6 So am I,' smiled Ailsaa. ' I wish to
resume my profession, and would rather do
so at Ebury than anywhere else. But I
never should have set up in opposition, you
know.'

c You are rich enough to lead an idle
life,' observed Mr. Wilmington ; ' why worry
yourself with your profession? It has its
own labour and cares, remember, James ;
more than some others have.'

4 Well, I am not so rich as people make
me out ; and a medical man is never the
worse for some private income, especially ina
neighbourhood where the poor abound.'

Then, my lad,' cried the old surgeon,

rising, and shaking him by the hand, ' you
are my partner from this hour, and may
God bless our union ! Ah me, what ups and
downs there are in this world ! Would you
believe, Emily, that Mary Hardwick, the
only daughter of the proud old House of
Hardwick, has had thoughts of becoming a
governess.'

A governess ! ' exclaimed Emily. ' She !
But wherefore ? '

I will tell you. You know that, since
her father's death, Mary has kept house for
her brother at the Hall ; and she has been
in the habit, year by year, of handing over
her own small income to eke out that of her
brother Tom. Now the Squire's new wife
is a regular skin flint, Emily, and she makes
him worse than he would be ; and he told
Mary at Christmas last, that now she was
released from her trouble with his housekeeping
matters, he should not continue to

pay her personal bills, and that she must
discontinue that extravagant practice of
giving her own money to Tom. This set
Miss Hardwick thinking  no very pleasant
thoughts you may be sure. To withdraw
her income from Tom she was resolved
not to do ; and she consulted me  poor,
humble old apothecary Winnington  about
seeking a situation as governess. The Squire
would have been up in arms, no doubt, if he
had known it : and Mary cried bitterly 
for she has a touch of the family pride, you
know.'

c And is she going out ? ' inquired Emily.

No,' replied Mr. Winnington ; ' and
now comes a bit of romance, Emily. A
certain sum has recently been paid into the
funds in Tom Hardwick's name, the interest
of which will nearly double his own income.
It was done in a mysterious manner ; no-one
knows by whom or through whom ;

but it is a godsend to Tom, who, poor fellow,
has had to pinch himself at times, and will
render the rest of his days comfortable. So
now, you see, Mary has no scruple in withdrawing
from him her own money.'

'I wonder Miss Hardwick has never
married,' mused Emily.

Why, my dear,' returned Miss Winning-ton,
' I do not think Mary is single for want of
offers, and she has plenty of time before her
yet. It is well known that she refused Lord
Chiselem ; and Earl Nunnery's heart, it is
said, w r as set upon the match.'

Who can have paid the money to assist
Tom ? ' wondered Emily.

4 That is a problem, perhaps never to be
solved,' answered the surgeon. ' I can assure
you, Emily, half the village would give their
ears to know.'

So they sat talking. When they were
about to leave for the night, James accompanied

them to the hall-door, and there gave
his arm to Emily, meaning to walk with
them as far as the gates. It was a warm
night, calm and still. The moon, nearly at
the full, was riding along the heavens, steeping
the garden before them in light. They
had gone but a few paces, when Miss Winnington
turned back to the house, remembering
that she had left her cap behind. The
surgeon followed her.

They disappeared within the hall, and
Ailsaa and his companion turned and waited
for them. They had accidentally halted on
the very spot, underneath the self same trees
where they had last stood together  that
stormy, tempestuous night, when Ailsaa stole,
almost as a thief, into the grounds, to
obtain one word from her ; to say farewell,
it might have been for ever.

1 How rapidly the years have passed ! '
vol. III. S

exclaimed Emily, more in accordance with
her own thoughts than in remark to
him.

Since we last met here,' he replied
quickly. ' They have indeed.'

Ah, he was thinking of it then, even as
she was.

He told me then,' was her next thought,
that he should strive to root me out of his
heart. Did he so strive ?  and did he succeed?'


Seven years ! ' observed Ailsaa, ' seven
long years ! Had we known then that seven
years would be the term of  of (he seemed
to hesitate for a word)  ' our separation  I
mean that would elapse before we met again,
we should have thought it interminable ;
yet what is it in the retrospect ? '

What indeed ! ' she answered. i It
seems as a dream.'

And it has left little mark upon us.

You, Emily, are scarcely, if at all, changed ;
and people tell me I am not.'

Ailsaa stooped and plucked some violets,
several of which grew at the foot of the trees
close by, and gave them to her. ' You are
fond of the scent of violets, I remember ;
these are very sweet ones. I wonder,' he
observed, musingly, ' if they are the old
roots?'

You do not, then, quite forget all our
old thoughts and feelings, our likes and dislikes,'
she said, with apparent calmness, but
with a beating heart.

Not quite,' he quietly replied.

How stupid of you both to stand stock
still ! ' broke out the surgeon, advancing
with Miss Winnington ; ' I told you to walk
on. And you without your hat, James ! '

What a lovely night it is ! ' exclaimed
Emily to Ailsaa.  Everything seems so still,
so full of peaces

2

Yes,' he replied, ' it serves as a contrast
to the one when we were last here together.
The elements were jarring enough
then.'

8 Ah, that was a wretched night. You
did not take cold, I hope, James ? I
thought at the time you inevitably would
do so.'

Take  what did you say ? ' He seemed
lost in thought.

< Cold.'

Cold ? Oh no, I think not. If I did,
I don't remember it now ; and I am sure I
did not heed it then.'

Ailsaa wished them good-night when they
reached the gate, and turned to retrace his
steps indoors. ' The night is beautiful
indeed, as she said,' he repeated to himself,
1 and is a contrast to that one. They seem
a type of my fortunes : then they were as
the weather  black, stormy, and apparently

without hope ; now they are bright as this
lovely scene. Oh, the misery, the misery of
that night ! And yet, anguish as it was tome,
all that dark period of my existence, I
would afterwards have given my opening
prospects to live it over again  to exchange
for it the terrible apathy to all human
things which alone it left me. Why, why
should we be in such haste to love ?  why
hasten to wear away the fresh green of the
tree of life only that we may sear it forever
? '

1 She is altered for the better,' he resumed
after a while, ' for she is more quiet
and subdued. I do not think she would
flirt so much now,' he continued, with a
melancholy smile, ' even with Mr. Tom
Hardwick, were he the gay gallant he used
to be. Fallen circumstances and seven years
have worked their traces upon her mind,
though they may have spared her countenance.

And for me?  the romance of life
passed away with her : I must see what I
can make of the reality.'

'Are Mr. Ailsaa and Tom Hard wick
friends now ? ' inquired Emily as they
walked home, putting the question with
indifference.

Very good friends indeed,' answered
the surgeon. c Excellent friends. Ailsaa
often calls at his lodgings, and chats with
him, to pass away one of his many weary
hours. Poor Tom ! they hang heavily upon
his hands.'

Fifty times that night did Emily ask herself
if Ailsaa still loved her. He had met her
cordially ; he had voluntarily given her his
arm to the outer gates, and had conversed
with her, though slightly, upon former days ;
he had plucked violets for her, remembering
that she was partial to them  in all this,
was there, or was there not. a lurking sentiment

of love ? ' Time alone must prove,'
sighed Emily.

But time seemed to prove nothing.
Eight or ten weeks elapsed, and things
remained just as they were then. She saw
Ailsaa frequently. His manner to her was
always friendly, but he had not again alluded
to bygone days. Emily went to the Hall,
and was introduced to its new mistress.
She did not like her ; few did ; but sweet
Mary Hardwick, kind and considerate as
ever, served to compensate for the austere
character of her sister-in-law.

She was invited to the Hall, to one of
their formal dinner-parties ; when the sideboards
groaned with plate, and the servants
were so numerous that they trod on
each other's heels. Emily could not help
thinking how much better it would be, if
some of the silver and domestics had been
disposed of, and the proceeds applied to

enlarge Tom's income : if he did not want it
now, lie had wanted it. But near in some
matters as the Squire was, it would have
broken his heart to diminish the old baronial
state, which custom, and their own ideas,
had rendered indispensable to the head of
the House of Hardwick. Ailsaa was there
also that evening : he seemed to be a
favoured and frequent visitor.

III.

Limitations went out from James Ailsaa
for a sort of rustic fete ; a house-warming
he called it to Miss Wilmington. Young
ladies as well as old were invited ; many ;
and people laughingly said he meant to
choose a wife at it. Emily Bell's pulses beat
as she heard it.

Would she be his choice ? The doubt
was of too weighty a moment to her to
be idly guessed at. She loved Ailsaa now.
Formerly, when her attention had been
distracted by others, Emily had loved
him in her own fashion, and perhaps
almost as much as she was capable of loving
anyone. But the last few weeks, when she
had been led into daily contact with him 

listened to his voice, leaned upon his arm 
had brought, indeed, a passion to her heart
deeper than of old. Yet Ailsaa had not now
striven to plant it there : not a word or a
kok had escaped him that might not have
been given  say  to old Miss Winnington.

The day brought weather with it warm
and lovely. Dancing on the lawn was one of
the amusements. Ailsaa had stood up twice
only, once with Miss Hardwick, the second
time with Emily. Was it for the abstract
pleasure of dancing with her that he had
singled her out for the honour, when so
many were present, who, from their rank
and position, might be considered as having
a better right to it ; or was he desirous to
show to the world that he did not slight one
who, it was pretty generally believed, had
once held the first place in his heart ?

The evening was growing dusk, and the
sound of the music and dancing was still

heard, but Ailsaa was not joining in it.
He was strolling in a distant part of the
grounds  the reader may see him therewith
a young lady by his side, and may
listen to what he is saying.

4 When, Mary, are my days of probation
to end ? They have endured these several
w r weeks, and had I not guessed the reason of
their being imposed, I should have borne
them less patiently

She looked up quickly ; and as she met
his eyes fixed upon hers, and saw the half-saucy,
half-tender smile upon his countenance,
some of the proud Hard wick blood
rushed to her face.

1 James,' she faltered, c what do you
mean ? '

Before you gave the irrevocable promise
to be mine,' he said, gliding his arm round
her waist, ' you were willing to ascertain if
any remains of my love for Miss Bell still

lingered, or if it would break out again.
You need not have doubted me, Mary.'

fi Pray forgive me,' she said, bursting
into tears.

My clear love, there is nothing to forgive,'
he answered. ' Had you only given
me a hint, I should have spoken then as I
am about to speak now ; as I always intended
to speak before we married. Now
listen to me, Mary,' and he drew her closer
to him as they walked. ' You suspect that
I once loved Emily Bell. I did indeed love
her ; none can know how passionately, or
picture the bitter anguish that overwhelmed
me when I awoke to reality. Life and its
events ; the world and its hopes and cares ;
the present, past, future  all seemed to mea
blank : a long, dark, dreamy blank it appears
to me now when I look back upon it.
But I struggled hard to overcome this, I
struggled hard to forget her, and I succeeded

in time ; and so effectually, that no
trace of love or liking for her is left. I look
at her now, and can scarcely believe she is
the girl I was once so infatuated with : so
our feelings change. I tell you this,' he
proceeded, 'for you have a right now to
know every hidden thought and feeling of
mine ; but believe me, Mary, you will not
find that your husband will cherish you less,
because you were not his first love.'

1 do believe you she whispered.

I cannot promise to love you,' he resumed,
4 with the same infatuated passion
that I bore for her, neither would it be well,
for either of us, Mary ; for, rely upon it,
that dream of Elysium is only meant for
the short romance of early youth ; it could
not long survive marriage and the realities
of later life. And where such love does
fall, and end, as end it must, it shatters
almost unto death.'

You left Ebury, I believe, because someone
interfered between you ? ' asked Miss
Hard wick.

c Yes. I knew then that she did not
return my love, that she was only playing
with me for her own amusement. I had
suspected it at times, but I only knew it
positively the very night before I left  the
night preceding the steeplechase. And if
she had given me, that night, but one word
of hope, one word of love, Mary, I should
have returned now to claim her ; and we
should never have been to each other but
strangers. At that interview the conviction
was forced upon me that she was a vain,
deceitful, and heartless girl.'

I always thought  though believe me,
James, I say this in no spirit of rivalry 
that she was not worthy of you.'

'I think so now, Mary. Or, rather  for
you will say that admission savours of

egregious vanity  I think she was very
insulted to me.'

1 It was said at the time that it was my
brother Tom who interfered between you,
and caused the separation.'

You shall know as much of the matter
one day as I do. Unless,' he proceeded ina
tone of inexpressible tenderness, ' unless
you will fear to consign your happiness 
that of a whole life, Mary  to the keeping
of one who has been bold enough to make
the hazardous confession that he cannot love
you as he once loved another ? '

But Ailsaa knew the question to be unnecessary
as he spoke.

James,' resumed Miss Hardwick after a
pause, ' you say we are not to have any
secrets from each other, as I trust we never
shall have  but I think you have still kept
one from me. The unknown benefactor of
my brother Tom ; who has made the remainder

of his days easy ; that friend was
yourself.'

Ailsaa remained silent ; but the tell-tale
blood rushed to his face.

8 Am I not right ? You will surely trust
me.'

'You are right, Mary,' he replied.
8 But, I pray you, let not a word of this
pass your lips.'

8 As you will,' she said. 8 1 wish I could,
in his name, thank you for it as I ought.'

8 You can do that by never mentioning
the subject.'

8 What could have been your motive?'
she continued. 8 It is rare that one confers
such benefit on an enemy, and in that light
I believe you once regarded Tom, perhaps
with cause.'

8 / had a motive, replied Ailsaa solemnly,
4 but I shall never explain it to you in all
its details.'

1 Some time,' was her remark.  There
must come a day for full confidence between
us.'

In all else, Mary, but not in this ; even
when you shall be my wife. But I will give
you the outline at once, and then please let
the matter drop between us for ever. I
thought ill of your brother ; / wished him
ill; and though it is quite impossible my
sinful wish could have brought the evil upon
him, yet  but  that is all, Mary.'

1 But Tom did not know you wished him
ill?'

No human being heard it or knew it.
It lay between myself and God.'

1 How seriously you speak, James! ' she
exclaimed, looking earnestly at him.

My love, let us forget the subject ; it
is extremely painful to me.' He turned ashe
spoke, and they proceeded in the direction
of the lights and the crowd.

VOL. III. T

They were beginning to let off the fireworks,
when Ailsaa ran into the house to see
that none of his guests remained indoors,
but in the little room opening to the greenhouse
he found Miss Winnington.

6 Make haste and come with me,' he said ;
6 1 will find you a place.'

6 I would not stir out for all the fireworks
in the three kingdoms, James, and you into
the bargain,' rejoined the old lady. 'No
standing in the night air for me, since I
had rheumatic fever. I shall remain where
I am. But one word, James, before
you go. What is this report that is being
whispered? People say you are about to
marry.'

8 And for once people say right.'

6 Upon whom has your choice fallen ?
Upon Emily?'

'No, no. Cannot you make a better
guess ? '

Miss Winnington clasped her hands.
Oh, James ! '

'Are you displeased at my choice  do
you not approve it ? '

I have no right to be displeased at it,
and none could disapprove of Mary Hardwick.
You see I have guessed. But  I
must speak out, James  I thought you were
once so fervently attached to Emily Bell.'

So I was ; passionately attached to her.'

And I deemed that if any one's love
could have withstood the shocks of time, it
was yours.'

Time did not change my love,' he
answered, with a shade of agitation in his
voice ; ' she changed it.'

Alas ! I have sometimes feared so.
And my little dream of romance is over.'

It is. But my dear, long-tried friend,
I have seen and thanked you for it. You
thought to serve two hearts by bringing her

hither ; to unite those upon whom the ban
of separation had been forced. Had that
separation alone stood between them, you
would have been rewarded ; but I am not
the less grateful for the kindness.'

4 You have no love left for her, then ? '

None ; or worse than none. There is
not a young lady here to-night that I would
not choose for my wife in preference to her.
I do not know why this feeling should exist ;
I only know that it does, and that I cannot
avoid or mitigate it.'

Do you think she has so completely forgotten
you ? '

Ailsaa quite laughed. ' The task for her
could not have been a difficult one. She
never cared for me.'

Ailsaa left by one door, and Miss Winnington
pushed open the other, which was
ajar. But in passing into the greenhouse,
she almost stumbled over Emily.

'Why  Emily! How came you here?
Did you hear my conversation with James
Ailsaa ? '

She burst into tears, and threw herself
into the old lady's arms as she spoke. ' I
heard it all  all ; but not intentionally. I
came into the greenhouse, and some one, when
I would have gone out, had fastened the door
upon me ; Ned, perhaps, for mischief. I
could not come out this w r ay and betray to
you both that I was here.'

My poor girl ! ' breathed Miss Winning-ton,
for she saw how deeply Emily's feelings
had been shaken.

Oh, that wicked propensity for flirtation
! ' exclaimed the excited girl ; ' had I
never given way to it, and neglected him,
whom I really loved, for others, how different
it would have been now ! '

Ah, my dear, to tell the truth, I always
blamed you. Few persons have the opportunity

given them of attaching a heart such
as Ailsaa's. But you were attracted, girl-like,
by the gay plumage of Mr. Tom Hardwick,
and other such worthless butterflies.
Let it be a warning to you, my child.'

P The warning has come too late,' sighed
Emily, pressing her hands upon her aching
brow. ' Would I had never returned here,
for it has taken away all my hope in life.'

You must not take things too much to
heart,' cried Miss Wilmington, using, unconsciously,
almost the very words that had
once been spoken by Emily to Ailsaa.

There's a bright firework ! ' exclaimed
Emily, dropping her hands from her temples,
and changing her tone. 'I shall go
and see them.'

As she quitted the hall door, she encountered
Ailsaa. He expressed his surprise that
she was not where everyone else was, and
turned to conduct her.

6 I went into the house to see Miss Winnington,'
panted Emily ; ' her cold is bad,
and she will not come out.'

'How did you go in, then? I have
been standing here, and did not see you.'

'I went through the greenhouse, but
some one locked it after me, so I could not
return that way.'

'I fastened the greenhouse,' he said.
4 Upon seeing the door open, I thought it
safer that it should be kept shut, lest some
sparks should get in and injure the plants.
But that is not very recently. You must
have been in some time, Emily.'

Their eyes met ; and, for a moment,
neither withdrew the gaze. He saw that
his conversation with Miss Winnington had
been heard, and she felt that he saw it. She
released his arm, and murmuring something
about the fireworks darted away, like a
fawn, across the grass. Had she stood one

minute longer, she would have fallen into
hysterics, and sobbed upon his breast, as
she had done that stormy, 
night.

IY.

The day came at last on which Emily was
to depart from Ebury. Had she followed
her own inclinations, she would have left
when she first heard of James Ailsaa's engagement
; but Miss Winnington would not
permit this. It was somewhat singular,
though quite the result of accident, that her
departure was fixed for the same day as the
marriage.

8 Farewell, farewell, dear Miss Winning-ton,'
she said, tears running down her cheeks,
and thank you for all your kindness.'

Take care how you get in, Emily,' exclaimed
the surgeon, as they reached the
coach ; ' another step. Oh, you need not

laugh, Mr. Edward ; young legs make light
of such matters, but old ones like mine feel
that bruises are easier got than cured. You
are sure you have everything, my dear?
Don't forget that you have promised us
another visit next summer ; we shall not fail
to claim it.'

She shook hands with Mr. Winnington,
and bent down to kiss her brother.

Be a good boy, Edward,' she whispered,
and do all you can to serve Mr. and Miss
Winnington, in return for their great kindness
to you.'

6 1 will, Emily, I will indeed,' answered
the boy ; ' you may tell mamma so.'

All right,' cried Mr. Winnington, as he
closed the door with a bang. And the coach
rolled onwards.

Emily remained lost in thought till they
came near the Hall, when, aware of the
festivities which had that morning taken

place, she leaned forward and looked from
the window.

They were close upon the lodge gates,
when the coach took a sudden swerve, to
give place to a chariot-and-four which was
bowling through them, on its way from the
Hall, in the old-fashioned style of the day.
It contained James Ailsaa and his bride.

Before Emily was prepared for this, her
glance had encountered theirs. She bowed
to them, quite unconscious at the moment
of what she did, and they both returned it.
A crimson blush overspread Mary's face, but
his remained perfectly calm. It needed not
this to convince Emily how completely he
had forgotten her.

It was but a momentary meeting.
Almost as Emily looked, the carriage had
passed, leaving its cloud of dust behind.
The stage-coachman, after an admiring eye
given to the lost equipage, whipped up his

horses to gain the station in time for the
half-past two o'clock train ; and Emily Bell,
sinking into the darkest corner of the empty
coach, sobbed bitterly.

