CHAPTER I.

PAGE

After the Tempest 1

CHAPTER II.
Holiday-making 11

CHAPTER III.
C. Morbus, Esq 25

CHAPTER IV.
Peter's Thunderbolt 33

CHAPTER V.
A Squire op Dames 43

CHAPTER VI.
Love and Obedience 50

CHAPTER VII.

PAGE

Una or Duessa . . . . .   61

CHAPTER VIII.
Families Descensus 71

CHAPTER IX.
Way, Way 82

CHAPTER X.
The River's Bank 90

CHAPTER XI.
Not in Vain 101

CHAPTER XII.
Griff's Bird 108

CHAPTER XIII.
Slack Water 117

CHAPTER XIV.
Outward Bound . . .    .128

\

CHAPTER XV.

PAGE

Too Late 141

CHAPTER XVI.
A Purpose 151

CHAPTER XVII.
The Midnight Chase 159

CHAPTER XVIII.
Wills Old and New .166

CHAPTER XIX.
On a Spree 174

CHAPTER XX.
The Price 182

CHAPTER XXI.
Paying the Cost . . . . . .190

CHAPTER XXII.
Achieved . . .     .198

CHAPTER XXIII.

PAGE

Restitution 206

CHAPTER XXIV.
The Fordyce Story . . . . . .215

CHAPTER XXV.
The Last Discovery 223

AFTER THE TEMPEST.

Xor deem the irrevocable past
As wholly wasted, wholly vain,
If rising on its wrecks at last
To something nobler we attain.'  Longfellow.

All the rest of trie family were out, and I was
relieved by being alone with my distress, not forced
to hide it, when the door opened and ' Mr. Castleford'
was announced. After one moment's look
at me, one touch of my hand, he must have seen
that I was faint with anxiety, and said, ' It is all
right, Edward ; I see you know all. I am come
from Bristol to tell your father that he may be
proud of his son Clarence.'

I don't know what I did. Perhaps I sobbed
and cried, but the first words I could get out were,
Does he know ? Oh ! it may be too late. He maybe
gone off to sea !' I cried, breaking out with my
chief fear. Mr. Castleford looked astounded, then
said, ' I trust not. I sent off a special messenger
last night, as soon as I saw my way '

VOL. II. B

Then I breathed a little more freely, and could
understand what he was telling me, namely, that
Tooke had accused Clarence of abstracting 20
from the sum in his charge. The fellow accounted
for it by explaining that young Win slow had been
paying extravagant bills at a tavern, where the
barmaid showed his presents, and boasted of her
conquest. All this had been written to Mr. Castleford
by his partner, and he was told that it was
out of deference to himself that his protect was not
in custody, nor had received notice of dismissal;
but, no doubt, he would give his sanction to immediate
measures, and communicate with the family.

The effect had been to make the good man
hurry at once from the Giant's Causeway to Bristol,
where he had arrived on Sunday, to investigate the
books and examine the underlings. In the midst
Tooke attempted to abscond, but he was brought
back as he was embarking in an American vessel ;
and he then confessed the whole,  how speculation
had led to dishonesty, and following evil customs
not uncommon in other firms. Then, when the fugitive
found that young Winslow was too acute to be
blinded, and that it had been a still greater mistake
to try to overcome his integrity, self-defence
required his ruin, or at any rate his expulsion,
before he could gain Mr. Castleford's ear.

Tooke really believed that the discreditable bills

were the young man's own, and proofs of concealed
habits of dissipation ; but this excellent man had
gone into the matter, repaired to the tradesfolk,
learnt the date, and whose the accounts really were,
and had even hunted up the barmaid, who was not
married after all, and had no hesitation in avowing
that her beau had been the handsome young Yeomanry
lieutenant. Mr. Castleford had spent the
greater part of Monday in this painful task, but had
not been clear enough till quite late in the evening
to despatch an express to his partner, and to
Clarence, whom he desired to meet him here.

He has acted nobly,' said our kind friend. ' His
only error seems to have been in being too good
a brother.'

This made me implore that nothing should be
said about Griffith's bills, showing those injunctions
of Clarence's which had so puzzled me, and explaining
the circumstances.

Mr. Castleford hummed and hawed, and perhaps
wished he had seen my father before me ; but I prevailed
at last, and when the others came in from their
drive, there was nothing to alloy the intelligence
that Clarence had shown rare discernment, as well as
great uprightness, steadfastness, and moral courage.

My mother, when she had taken in the fact,
actually shed tears of joy. Emily stood by me,
holding my hand. My father said, ' It is all owing

to you, Castleford, and the helping hand you gave
the poor boy

Nay,' was the answer, ' it seems to me that it
was owing to his having the root of the matter in
him to overcome his natural failings.'

Still, in all the rejoicing, my heart failed me lest
the express should have come too late, and Clarence
should be already on the high seas, for there had
been no letter from him on Sunday morning. It was
doubtful whether Mr. Castleford's messenger could
reach London in time for tidings to come down by
the coach  far less did we expect Clarence  and
we had nearly finished the first course at dinner,
when we heard the front door open, and a voice speaking
to the butler. Emily screamed ' It's he ! Oh
mamma, may I?' and flew out into the hall, dragging
in a pale, worn and weary wight, all dust and heat,
having travelled down outside the coach on a broiling
day, and walked the rest of the way. He looked
quite bewildered at the rush at him ; my father's
1 Well done, Clarence,' and strong clasp ; and my
mother's fervent kiss, and muttered something about
washing his hands.

Formal folks, such as we were, had to sit in our
chairs ; and when he came back apologising for not
dressing, as he had left his portmanteau for the
carrier, he looked so white and ill that we were
quite shocked, and began to realise what he had

suffered. He could not eat the food that was
brought back for him, and allowed that his head
was aching dreadfully ; but, after a glass of wine
had been administered, it was extracted that he
had met Mr. Frith at the office door, and been
gruffly told that Mr. Castleford was satisfied, and
he might consider himself acquitted.

'And then I had your letter, sir, thank you,'
said Clarence, scarcely restraining his tears.

The thanks are on our side, my dear boy,' said
Mr. Castleford. ' I must talk it over with you,
but not till you have had a night's rest. You look
as if you had not known one for a good while.'

Clarence gave a sort of trembling smile, not
trusting himself to speak. Approbation at home was
so new and strange to him that he could scarcely
bear it, worn out as he was by nearly a month of
doubt, distress, apprehension, and self-debate.

My mother went herself to hasten the preparation
of his room, and after she had sent him to bed
went again to satisfy herself that he was comfortable
and not feverish. She came back wiping
away a tear, and saying he had looked up at her
just as when she had the three of us in our nursery
cribs. In truth these two had seldom been so happy
together since those days, though the dear mother,
while thankful that he had not failed, was little
aware of the conflict his resolution had cost him. and

the hot journey and long walk came in for more
blame for his exhaustion than they entirely deserved.

My father perhaps understood more of the trial ;
for when she came back, declaring that all that was
needed was sleep, and forbidding me to go to my
room before bedtime, he said he must bid the boy
good-night.

And he spoke as his reserve would have never
let him speak at any other time, telling Clarence
how deeply thankful he felt for the manifestation
of such truthfulness and moral courage as he said
showed that the man had conquered the failings of
the boy.

Nevertheless, when I retired for the night, it was
to find Clarence asleep indeed, but most uneasily,
tossing, moaning, and muttering broken sentences
about 'disgracing his pennant,' 'never bearing to
see mamma's face '  and the like. I thought it a
kindness to wake him, and he started up. 'Ted,
is it you ? I thought I should never hear your
dear old crutch again ! Is it really all right ' 
then, sitting up and passing his hand over his face,
I always mix it up with the old affair, and think
the court-martial is coming again.'

1 There's all the difference now.'

Thank God ! yes  He has dragged me through !
But it did not seem so in one's sleep, nor waking
neither  though sleep is worst, and happily there

was not much of that ! Sit down, Ted ; I want to
look at you. I can't believe it is not three weeks
since I saw you last.'

We talked it all out, and I came to some perception
of the fearful ordeal it had been  first, in
the decision neither to shut his eyes, nor to conceal
that they were open ; and then in the lack of
presence of mind and the sense of confusion that
always beset him when browbeaten and talked
down, so that, in the critical contest with Tooke, he
felt as if his feet were slipping from under him, and
what had once been clear to him was becoming
dim, so that he had only been assured that he had
held his ground by Tooke's redoubled persuasions
and increased anger. And for a clerk, whose years
were only twenty-one, to oppose a manager, who
had been in the service more than the whole of
that space, was preposterous insolence, and likely to
result in the utter ruin of his own prospects, and
the character he had be<mn to retrieve. It was

o

just after this, the real crisis, that he had the only
dream which had not been misery and distress.
In it she  she yonder  yes, the lady with the lamp,
came and stood by him, and said, ' Be steadfast.'

It was a dream,' said Clarence. { She was not
as she is in the mullion room, not crying, but with
a sweet, sad look, almost like Miss Fordyce  if Miss
Fordyce ever looked sad. It was only a dream.'

Yet it had so refreshed and comforted him that
we have often since discussed whether the spirit
really visited him, or whether this was the manner
in which conscience and imagination acted on his
brain. Indeed, he always believed that the dream
had been either heaven-sent or heaven-permitted.

The die had been cast in that interview when
he had let it be seen that he was dangerous, and
could not be bought over. The after consequences
had been the terrible distress and temptation I have
before described, only most inadequately. ' But
that,' said Clarence, half smiling, ' only came of my
being such a wretched creature as I am. There,
dear old Miss Newton saved me  yes, she did 
most unconsciously, dear old soul. Don't you
remember how Griff used to say she maundered
over the text. Well, she did it all the way home
in my ear, as she clung to my arm  " Be strong,
and He shall comfort thine heart." And then I
knew my despair and determination to leave it all
behind were a temptation  " the old story," as you
told me, and I prayed God to help me, and just
managed to fight it out. Thank God for her !'

If it had not been for that good woman, he
would have been out of reach  already out in
the river  before Mr. Castleford's messenger had
reached London ! He might call himself a poor
creature  and certainly a man of harder, bolder stuff

would not have fared so badly in the strife ; but it
always seemed to me in after years that much of
what he called the poor creature  the old, nervous,
timid, diffident self  had been shaken off in that
desperate struggle, perhaps because it had really
given him more self-reliance, and certainly inspired
others with confidence in him.

We talked late enough to have horrified my
mother, but I did not leave him till he was sleeping
like a child, nor did he wake till I was leaving the
room at the sound of the bell. It was alleged that
it was the first time in his life that he had been
late for prayers. Mr. Castleford said he was very
glad, and my mother, looking severely at me, said
she knew we had been talking all night, and then
went off to satisfy herself whether he ought to begetting
up.

There was no doubt on that score, for he was
quite himself again, though he was, in looks and in
weariness, just as if he had recovered from a bad
illness, or, as he put it himself, he felt as tired
and bruised as if lie had been in a stiff gale. Mr.
Castleford was sorry to be obliged to ask him to go
through the whole matter with him in the study,
and the result was that lie was pronounced to have
an admirable head for business, as well as the higher
qualities that had been put to the test. After that
his good friend insisted that he should have a long

and complete holiday, at first proposing to take him
to Ireland, but giving the notion up on hearing of
our projected excursion to the north of Devon.
Pending this, Clarence was, for nearly a week, fit for
nothing but lying on the grass in the shade, playing
with the cats and dogs, or with little Anne, looking
over our drawings, listening to Wordsworth, our
reigning idol,  and enjoying, with almost touching
gratitude, the first approach to petting that had ever
fallen to his share.

The only trouble on his mind was the Quarter-session.
Mr. Castleford would hardly have prosecuted
an old employe, but Mr. Frith was furious,
and resolved to make an example. Tooke had, however,
so carefully entrenched himself that nothing
could be actually made a subject of prosecution
but the abstraction of the 20 of which he had
accused Clarence, who had to prove the having
received and delivered it.

It was a very painful affair, and Tooke was
sentenced to seven years' transportation. I believe
he became a very rich and prosperous man in New
South Wales, and founded a family. My father
received warm compliments upon his sons, and
Clarence had the new sensation of being honourably
coupled with Griffith, though he laughed at the idea
of mere honesty with fierce struggles being placed
beside heroism with no struggle at all.

Holiday-making.

The child upon the mountain side
Plays fearless and at ease,
While the hush of purple evening

Spreads over earth and seas.
The valley lies in shadow,
But the valley lies afar ;
And the mountain is a slope of light
U preaching to a star.'

Manilla Sedley.

How pleasant it was to hear Griffith's cheery voice,
as he swung himself down, out of a cloud of dust,
from the top of the coach at the wayside stage-house,
whither Clarence and I had driven in the new britshka
to meet him. While the four fine coach-horses were
led off, and their successors harnessed in almost the
twinkling of an eye, Griff was with us ; and we did
nothing but laugh and poke fun at each other all the
way home, without a word of graver matters.

I was resolved, however, that Griff should know
how terribly his commission had added to Clarence's
danger, and how carefully the secret had been

guarded ; and the first time I could get him alone, I
told him the whole.

The effect was one of his most overwhelming fits
of laughter. 'Poor old Bill! To think of his
being accused of gallantry about with barmaid ! (an
explosion at every pause) and revelling with officers !
Poor old Bill ! it was as bad as Malvolio himself.'

When, indignant at the mirth excited by what
had nearly cost us so dear, I observed that these
items had nearly turned the scale against our
brother, Griff demanded how we could have been
such idiots as not to have written to him ; I might
at least have had the sense to do so. As to its
doing him harm at Hillside, Parson Prank was no
fool, and knew what men were made of! Griff
would have taken the risk, come at once, and thrust
the story down the fellow's throat (as indeed he
would have done). The idea of Betsy putting up
with a pious young man like Bill, whose only flame
had ever been old Miss Newton !' And he roared
again at the incongruous pair. ' Oh, wasn't she
married after all, the hussy? She always had a
dozen beaux, and professed to be on the point of
putting up her banns ; so if the earrings were not a
wedding present, they might have been, ought to
have been, and would be some time or other.'

Then he patted me, and declared there was no
occasion for my disgusted looks, for no one knew

better than himself that he had the best brace of
brothers in existence, wanting in nothing but commonsense
and knowledge of the world. As to Betsy 
faugh! I need not make myself uneasy about her;
she knew what a civil word was worth much better
than I did.

He showed considerable affection for Clarence
after a fashion of his own, which we three perfectly
understood, and preferred to anything more conventional.
Griff was always delightful, and he was
especially so on that vacation, when every one was
in high spirits ; so that the journey is, as I look
back on it, like a spot of brilliant sunshine in the
distant landscape.

Mrs. Fordyce kept house with her father-in-law,
little Anne, and Martyn, whose holidays began a
week after we had started. The two children were
allowed to make a desert island and a robbers' cave
in the beech wood ; and the adventures which their
imaginations underwent there completely threw ours
into the shade.

The three ladies and I started in the big Hillside
open carriage, with my brothers on the box and the
two fathers on horseback. Frank Fordyce was a
splendid rider, as indeed was the old rector, who
had followed the hounds, made a leap over a fearful
chasm, still known as the Parson's Stride, and had
been an excellent shot. The renunciation of field

sports had been a severe sacrifice to Frank Fordyce,
and showed of what excellent stuff he was made.
He used to say that it was his own fault that he
had to give them up ; another man would have been
less engrossed by them. Though he only read by
fits and starts when his enthusiasm was excited, he
was thorough, able, and acute, and his intelligence
and sympathy were my father's best compensation
for the loss of London society.

The two riders were a great contrast. Mr. Winslow
had the thoroughly well-appointed, somewhat
precise, and highly-polished air of a barrister, and a
thin, somewhat worn and colourless face, with
grizzled hair and white whiskers ; and though he
rode well, with full command of his horse, he was
old enough to have chosen Chancery for her sterling
qualities. Parson Frank, on the other hand,
though a thorough gentleman, was as ruddy and
weather-browned as any farmer, and  albeit his
features were handsome and refined, and his figure
well poised and athletic  he lost something of
dignity by easiness of gesture and carelessness of
dress, except on state occasions, when he discarded
his beloved rusty old coat and Oxford mixture
trousers, and came out magnificent enough for an
archdeacon, if not an archbishop ; while his magnificent
horse, Cossack, was an animal that a sporting
duke might have envied.

Nothing ever tired that couple, but my father
had stipulated for exchanges with Griffith. On
these occasions it almost invariably happened that
there was a fine view for Ellen to see, so that she
was exalted to the box with Griffith to show it to
her, and Chancery was consigned to Clarence. Griff
was wont to say that Chancery deserved her name,
and that he would defy the ninety-ninth part of a
tailor to come to harm with her ; but Clarence was
utterly unpractised in riding, did not like it, was
tormented lest Cossack's antics should corrupt
Chancery, and was mortally afraid of breaking the
knees of the precious mare. Not all Parson Frank's
good advice and kindly raillery would induce him
to risk riding her on a descent ; and as our travels
were entirely up and down hill, he was often left
leading her far behind, in hot sun or misty rain, and
then would come cantering hastily up, reckless of
parallels with John Gilpin, and only anxious to be
in time to help me out at the halting-place ; but more
than once only coming in when the beefsteaks were
losing their first charm, and then good-humouredly
serving as the general butt for his noble horsemanship.
Did any one fully comprehend how much
pleasant our journey was through the presence of
one person entirely at the service of the others ?
For my own part, it made an immense difference to
have one pair of strong arms and dextrous well-accustomed

hands always at my service, enabling me
to accomplish what no one else, kind as all were,
would have ventured on letting me attempt. Primarily,
he was my devoted slave ; but he was at the
beck and call of every one, making the inquiries,
managing the bargains, going off in search of whatever
was wanting  taking in fact all the ' must be
tones ' of the journal. The contemplation of Cossack
and Chancery being rubbed clown, and devouring
their oats was so delightful to Frank Fordyce and
Griffith that they seldom wished to shirk it ; but if
there were any more pleasing occupation, it was a
matter of course that Clarence should watch to see
that the ostler did their duty by the animals  an
obsolete ceremony, by the bye. He even succeeded
in hunting up and hiring a side saddle when the
lovers, with the masterfulness of their nature,
devised appropriating the horses at all the most
beautiful places, in spite of Frank's murmur, ' What
will mamma say ? ' But, as Griff said, it was a
real mercy, for Ellen was infinitely more at her ease
with Chancery than was Clarence. Then Emily had
Clarence to walk up the hills with her, and help her
in botany  her special department in our tour. Mine
was sketching, Ellen's, keeping the journal, though we
all shared in each other's work at times ; and Griff,
whose line was decidedly love-making, interfered considerably
with us all, especially with our chronicler.

I spare you the tour, young people ; it lies before me
on the table, profusely illustrated and written in
many hands. As I turn it over, I see noble Munster
on its rock ; Clarence leading Chancery down Pollock
Hill; Parson Frank in vain pursuit of his favourite
ancient hat over that wild and windy waste, the
sheep running away from him ; a boat tossing at
lovely Minehead ; a ' native ' bargaining over a crab
with my mother; the wonderful Valley of Rocks,
and many another scene, ludicrous or grand ; for,
indeed, we were for ever taking the one step between
the sublime and the ridiculous ! I am inclined to
believe it is as well worth reading as many that have
rushed into print, and it is full of precious reminiscences
to Emily and me ; but the younger generation
may judge for itself, and it would be an interruption
here. The country we saw was of utterly unimagined
beauty to the untravelled eyes of most of us.
I remember Ellen standing on Portland Point, with
her face to the infinite expanse of the Atlantic, and
waving back Griff with ' Oh, don't speak to me.'
Yet the sea was a delight above all to my mother
and Clarence. To them it was a beloved friend;
and magnificent as was Monmouth, wonderful as was
Lovely, and glorious as was Portland, I believe they
would equally have welcomed the waves if they had
been on the flattest of muddy shores ! The ripple,
plash, and roar were as familiar voices, the salt

VOL. II. C

smell as native air ; and my mother never had
thawed so entirely towards Clarence as when she
found him the only person who could thoroughly
participate her feeling.

At Minehead they stayed out, walking up and
down together in the summer twilight till long
after every one else was tired out, and had gone in ;
and when at last they appeared she was leaning on
Clarence's arm, an unprecedented spectacle !

At Appleton, the only place on that rugged coast
where boating tempted them, there was what they
called a pretty little breeze, but quite enough to
make all the rest of us decline venturing out into
Bedford bay. They, however, found a boatman and
made a trip, which was evidently such enjoyment
to them, that my father, who had been a little
restless and uneasy all the time, declared on their
return that he felt quite jealous of Neptune, and
had never known what a cruelty he was committing
in asking a sea-nymph to marry a London lawyer.

Mr. Fordyce told him he was afraid of being
like the fisherman who wedded a mermaid, and
made Ellen tell the story in her own pretty way ;
but while we were laughing over it, I saw my
mother steal her hand into my father's and give it a
strong grasp. Such gestures, which she denominated
pawing, when she witnessed them in Emily, were so
alien to her in general that no doubt this little

action was infinitely expressive to her husband.
She was wonderfully softened, and Clarence implied
to me that it was the first time she had ever seemed
to grieve for him more than she despised him, or to
recognise his deprivation more than his disgrace, 
implied, I say, for the words he used were little more
than  ' You can't think how nice she was to me.'

The regaining of esteem and self-respect was
lessening Clarence's bashfulness, and bringing out
his powers of conversation, so that he began to be
appreciated as a pleasant companion, answering
Griff's raillery in like fashion, and holding his own
in good-natured repartee. Mr. Fordyce got on excellently
with him in their tete-a-tetes (who would
not with Parson Frank ?), and held him in higher
estimation than did Ellen. To her, honesty was
common, tame, and uninteresting in comparison with
heroism ; and Griff's vague statement that Clarence
was the best brother in the world did not go for
much. Emily and I longed to get the two better
acquainted, but it did not become possible while
Griff absorbed the maiden as his exclusive property.

The enslavement was treated as an avowed and
settled thing, though I do not know that there had
been a formal ratification by the parents ; but in
truth Mrs. Fordyce must have tacitly yielded her
consent when she permitted her daughter to make
the journey under the guardianship of Parson Frank.

After a walk in the ravine of Linton, we became
aware of a ring upon Ellen's finger ; and Emily was
allowed at night to hear how and when it had been
put on.

Ellen only slightly deepened her lovely carnation
tints when her father indulged in a little tender
teasing and lamentation over himself. She was
thoroughly happy and proud of her hero, and not
ashamed of owning it.

There was one evening when she and I were
sitting with our sketchbooks in the shade on the
beech at Ilfracombe, while the rest had gone, some

CD '

to bathe, the others to make purchases in the town.
"We had been condoling with one another over the
impossibility of finding anything among our watercolours
that would express the wondrous tints before
our eyes.

No, nothing can do it I said at last ; * we can
only make a sort of blot to assist our memories.'

'Sunshine outside and in!' said Ellen. ' The
memory of such days as these can never fade away,
no, nor thankfulness for them, I hope.'

Something then passed about the fact that it
was quite possible to go on in complete content in a
quiet monotonous life, in an oyster-like way, till
suddenly there was an unveiling and opening of
unimagined capacities of enjoyment  as by a scene
like this before us, by a great poem, an oratorio, or,

as I supposed, by Megara or the Alps. Ellen put
it  ' Oh ! and by feelings for the great and good !'
Dear girl, her colour deepened, and I am sure she
meant her bliss in her connection with her hero.
Presently, however, she passed on to saying how
such revelations of unsuspected powers of enjoyment
helped one to enter into what was meant by ' Eye
hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither hath it entered
into the heart of man to conceive, the things that
God hath prepared for them that love him.' Then
there was a silence, and an inevitable quoting of the
Christian Year, the guide to all our best thoughts 

But patience, there may come a time.'

And then a turning to the ' Ogle to Immortality,'
for Wordsworth was our second leader, and we
carried him on our tour as our one secular book, as
Keble was our one religious book. We felt that
the principal joy of all this beauty and delight was
because there was something beyond. Presently
Ellen said, prettily and shyly, ' I am sure all this
has opened much more to me than I ever thought
of. I always used to be glad that we had no
brothers, because our cousins were not always
pleasant with us ; but now I have learnt what
valuable possessions they are,' she added, with the
sweetest, prettiest glance of her bright eyes.

I ventured to say that I was glad she said they,

and hoped it was a sign that she was finding ont
Clarence.

1 1 have found out that I behaved so ill to him
that I have been ashamed ever since to look at him
or speak to him said Ellen ; ' I long to ask his
pardon, but I believe that would distress him more
than anything.'

In which she was right ; and I was able to tell
her of the excuses there had been for the poor boy,
how he had suffered, and how he had striven to
conquer his failings ; and she replied that the words
Judge not, that ye be not judged,' always smote
her with the remembrance of her disdainfully
cantering past him. There was a tear on her eyelashes,
and it drew from me an apology for having
brought a painful recollection into our bright day.

There must be shade to throw up the lights,'
she said, with her sparkling look.

Was it shade that we never fell into one of these
grave talks when Griffith was present, and that the
slightest approach to them was sure to be turned by
him into jest ?

We made our journey a little longer than we
intended, crossing the moors so as to spend a Sunday
at Exeter ; but Frank Fordyce left us, not liking to
give his father the entire duty of a third Sunday.

Emily says she has come to have a superstition
that extensions of original plans never turn out welland

certainly some of the charm of our journey
departed with the merry, genial Parson Frank. Our
mother was more anxious about Ellen, and put
more restrictions on the lovers than when the father
was present to sanction their doings. Griffith
absolutely broke out against her in a way he had
never ventured before, when she forbade Ellen's
riding with him when he wanted to hire a horse
at Bedford and take an excursion on the moor before
joining us at Southampton.

My father looked up, and said, ' Griffith, I am
surprised at you.' He was constrained to mutter
some apology, and I believe Ellen privately begged
my mother's pardon, owning her to have been quite
right; but, by the dear girl, the wonderful cascade
and narrow gorge were seen through swollen eyes.
And poor Clarence must have had a fine time of it
when Griffith had to ride off with him faute de
mieux.

All was cleared off, however, when we met
again, for Griff's storms were very fleeting, and
Ellen treated him as if she had to make her own
peace with him. She sacrificed her own enjoyment
of Exeter Cathedral to go about with him when he
had had enough of it, but on Sunday afternoon she
altogether declined to walk with him till after the
second service. He laughed at her supposed passion
for sacred music, and offered to wait with her to

hear the anthem from the nave. ' No,' she said,
'that would be amusing ourselves instead of worshipping.'


We've done our devoir in that way already,'
said Griff. * Paid our dues.'

One can't,' cried Ellen, with an eager look.
One longs to do all the more when He has just let
us have such a taste of His beautiful things.'

One, perhaps, when one is a little saint,' returned
Griff.

Oh don't, Griff ! I'm not that ; but you know
every one wants all the help and blessing that can
be got. And then it is so delightful !'

He gave a long whistle. ' Every one to his
taste,' he said ; ' especially you ladies.'

He did come to the Cathedral with us, but he
had more than half spoilt this last Sunday. Did
he value her for what was best in her, or was her
influence raising him ?

C. MORBUS, ESQ.

1 Forgot were hatred, wrongs, and fears,
The plaintive voice alone she hears,
Sees but the dying man.'

Scott.

C. Morbus, Esq. Such was the card that some
wicked wag, one of Clarence's fellow-clerks probably,
left at his lodgings in the course of the
epidemic which was beginning its ravages even
while we were upon our pleasant journey  a shade
indeed to throw out the light.

In these days, the tidings of a visitation of
cholera are heard with compassion for crowded
towns, but without special alarm for ourselves or
our friends, since its conditions and the mode of
combating it have come to be fairly understood.

In 1832, however, it was a disease almost unknown
and unprecedented except in its Indian
abode, whence it had advanced city by city, seaport
by seaport, sweeping down multitudes before it ;
nor had science yet discovered how to encounter or
forestall it. We heard of it in a helpless sort of

way, as if it had been the plague or the Black Death,
and thought of its victims as doomed.

That terrible German engraving, 'Death as a
Foe,' which represents the grisly form as invading a
ballroom in Paris, is an expression of the feeling
with which the scourge was regarded on that first
occasion. Two Years Ago gives some notion of the
condition of things in 1849, but by that time there
had been some experience, and means of prevention
were better understood. On the alarm in that year
there was a great inspection of cottages throughout
Earlscombe and Hillside, but in 1832 there was no
notion of such precautions. Nevertheless, on neither
visitation, nor any subsequent one, has the disease
come nearer to us than Bristol.

As far as memory serves me, the idea was that
wholesome food, regular habits, and cleanliness were
some protection, but one locality might be as dangerous
as another. There had been cases in London
all the spring, but no special anxiety was felt when
Clarence returned to his work in the end of July,
much refreshed and invigorated by his holiday, and
with the understanding that he was to have a rise
in position and salary on Mr. Castleford's return
from Ireland, where he was still staying with his
wife's relations. Clarence was received at the office
with a kind of shamefaced cordiality, as if every one
would fain forget the way in which he had been

treated ; and he was struck by finding that all the
talk was of the advances of the cholera, chiefly at
Eotherhithe. And a great shock awaited him. He
went, as soon as business hours were over, to thank
good old Miss Newton for the comfort and aid she
had unwittingly given him, and to tell her from
what she had saved him. Alas ! it was the last
benefit she was ever to confer on her old pupil.
At the door he was told by a weeping, terrified
maid that she was very ill with cholera, and that
no hope was given. He tried to send up a message,
but she was in a state of collapse and insensible ;
and when he inquired the next morning, the gentle
spirit had passed away.

He attended her funeral that same evening.
Griff said it was a proof how your timid people will
do the most foolhardy things ; but Clarence always
held that the good woman had really done more for
him than any one in actually establishing a contact,
so to say, between his spirit and external truth, and
he thought no mark of respect beyond her deserts.
She was a heavy loss to him, for no one else in town
gave him the sense of home kindness ; and there
was much more to depress him, for several of his
Sunday class were dead, and the school had been
broken up for the time, while the heats and the
fruits of August contributed to raise the mortality.

His return had released a couple more clerks for

their holiday ; it was a slack time of year, with less
business in hand than usual, and the place looked
empty. Mr. Frith worked on as usual, but preserved
an ungracious attitude, as though he were
either still incredulous or, if convinced against his
will, resolved that * that prig of a Winslow ' should
not presume upon his services. Altogether the poor
fellow was quite unhinged, and wrote such dismal
bills of mortality, and meek, resigned forebodings
that my father was almost angry, declaring that he
would frighten himself into the sickness ; yet I suppressed
a good deal, and never told them of the last
will and testament in which he distributed his possessions
amongst us. Griff said he had a great
mind to go and shake old Bill up and row him well,
but he never did.

More than a week passed by, two of Clarence's
regular days for writing, but no letter came. My
mother grew uneasy, and talked of writing to Mrs.
Eobson, or, as we still called her, Gooch ; but it was
doubtful whether the answer would contain much
information, and it was quite certain that any ill
tidings would be sent to us.

At last we did hear, and found, as we had foreboded,
that the letter had not been written for fear
of alarming us, or carrying infection, though Clarence
underlined the words ' I am perfectly well.'

Having to take a message into the senior partner's

room, Clarence had found the old man crouched
over the table, writhing in the unmistakable grip
of the deadly enemy. Sto one else was available ;
Clarence had to collect himself, send for the doctor,
and manage the conveyance of the patient to his
rooms, which fortunately adjoined the office ; for,
through all his influx of wealth, Mr. Frith had
retained the habits and expenditure of his early
struggling days. His old housekeeper and her
drudge showed themselves terrified out of their
senses, and as incapable as unwilling. Naval experience,
and waiting on me, had taught Clarence
helpfulness and handiness ; and though this was
the very thing that had appalled his imagination,
he seemed, as he said afterwards, ' to have got beyond
his fright ' to the use of his common-sense.
And when at last the doctor came, and talked of
finding a nurse, if possible, for they were scarce
articles, the sufferer only entreated between his
paroxysms, ' Stay, Winslow ! Is Winslow there ?
Don't go ! Don't leave me !'

No nurse was to be found, but to Clarence's
amazement Gooch arrived. He had sent by the
office boy to explain his absence ; and before night
the faithful woman descended on him, intending,
as in her old days of authority, simply to put
Master Clarry out of harm's way, and take the
charge upon herself. Then, as he proved unmanageable

and would not leave his patient, neither would
she leave him, and through the frightful night that
ensued, there was quite employment enough for
them both. Gooch fully thought the end would
come before morning, and was murmuring something
about a clergyman, but was cut short by a
sharp prohibition. However, detecting Clarence's
lips moving, the old man said, ' Eh ! speak it out !'
'And with difficulty, feeling as if I were somebody
else,' said Clarence, ' I did get out some short words
of prayer. It seemed so awful for him to die
without any.'

When the doctor came in early morning, the
watchers were astonished to hear that their charge
had taken a turn for the better, and might recover
if their admirable care were continued. The doctor
had brought a nurse ; but Mr. Frith would not let
her come into the room, and there was plenty of
need for her elsewhere.

Several days of unremitting care followed, during
which Clarence durst not write to us, so little were
the laws of infection understood. Good Mrs. Kob-son
stayed all the time, and probably saved Clarence
from falling a victim to his zeal, for she looked
after him as anxiously as after the sick man ; and
with a wondering and thankful heart, he found
himself in full health, when both were set free to
return home. Clarence had written at the beginning

of the illness to the only relations of whose
existence or address he was aware, an old sister.
Mrs. Stevens, and a young great-nephew in the
office at Liverpool ; and the consequence was the
arrival of a sour-looking old widow sister, who
came to take charge of the convalescence, and, as
the indignant Gooch overheard her say, ' to prevent
that young Winslow from getting round him.'

There were no signs of such a feat having been
performed, when, the panic being past, my father
went up to London with Griffith, who was to begin
eating his terms at the Temple. He was to share
Clarence's lodgings, for the Eobsons had plenty of
room, and Gooch was delighted to extend her cares
to her special favourite, as she already reigned over
Clarence's wardrobe and table as entirely as in
nursery days ; and, to my great exultation, my
father said it would be good for Griffith to be with
his brother ; and, moreover, we should hear of the
latter. Nothing could be a greater contrast than
his rare notifications or requests, scrawled on a
single side of the quarto sheet, with Clarence's
regular weekly lines of clerkly manuscript, telling
all that could interest any of us, and covering every
available flap up to the blank circle left for the
trim red seal.

Promotion had come to Clarence in the natural
course of seniority, and a small sum, due to him on

his coming of age, was invested in the house of
business, so that the two brothers could take
between them all the Eobsons' available rooms.
Clarence's post was one of considerable trust ; but
there were no tokens of special favour, except that
Mr. Frith was more civil to my father than usual,
and when he heard of the arrangement about the
lodgings, he snarled out, ' Hm ! Law student indeed !
Don't let him spoil his brother !'

Which was so far an expression of gratitude
that it showed that he considered that there was
something to be spoilt. Mr. Castleford, however,
showed real satisfaction in the purchase of a share
in the concern for Clarence. His own eldest son
inherited a good deal of his mother's Irish nature,
and was evidently unfit to be anything but a soldier,
and the next was so young that he was glad to
have a promising and trustworthy young man, from
whom a possible joint head of the firm might be
manufactured.

peter's thunderbolt.

If you can separate yourself and your misdemeanours you are
welcome to the house ; if not, an it would please you to take leave
of her, she is very willing to bid you farewell.'  Twelfth Night.

In the early summer of 1833, we had the opportunity
of borrowing a friend's house in Portman Square for
six weeks, and we were allowed to take Ellen with
us for introduction to the Admiral and other old
friends, while we were to make acquaintance with her
connections  the family of Sir Horace Lester, M.P.

We were very civil ; but there were a good many
polite struggles for the exclusive possession of Ellen,
whom both parties viewed as their individual right ;
and her unselfish good-humour and brightness must
have carried her over more worries than we guessed
at the time.

She had stayed with the Lesters before, but in
schoolroom days. They were indolent and uninterested,
and had never shown her any of the permanent
wonders of London, despising these as only
fit for country cousins, whereas we had grown up

vol. n. D

to think of them with intelligent affection. To me,
however, much was as new as to Ellen. Country
life had done so much for me that I could venture
on what I had never attempted before. The Admiral
said it was getting away from doctors and their
experiments, but I had also done with the afflictions
of attempts at growth in wrong directions. Old
friends did not know me, and more than once, as I
sat in the carriage, addressed me for one of my
brothers  a compliment which, Griff said, turned
my head. Happily I was too much accustomed to
my own appearance, and people were too kind, forme
to have much shyness on that score. Our small
dinner parties were great enjoyment to me, and the
two girls were very happy in their little gaieties.

Abraham and Catalans, Fanny Kemble, and
Turner's landscapes at his best, rise in my memory
as supreme delights and revelations in their different
lines, and awakening trains of thought; and then
there was that entertainment which Griffith and
Clarence gave us in their rooms, when they regaled
us with all the delicacies of the season, and Peter and
Gooch looked all pride and hospitality ! The dining-parlour,
or what served as such, was Griff's property,
as any one could see by the pictures of horses, dogs,
and ladies, the cups, whips, and boxing-gloves that
adorned it; the sitting-room had tokens of other
occupation, in Clarence's piano, window-box of

flowers, and his one extravagance in engravings from
Eaffaelle, and a marine water-colour or two, besides
all my own attempts at family portraits, with a case
of well-bound books. Those two rooms were perfectly
redolent of their masters  I say it literally 
for the scent of flowers was in Clarence's room, and
in Griff's, the odour of cigars had not wholly been
destroyed even by much airing. For in those days
it was regarded by parents and guardians as an
objectionable thing.

Peter was radiant on that occasion ; but a few
evenings later, when all were gone to an evening
party except my father and myself, Mr. Robson was
announced as wishing to speak to Mr. Win slow.
After the civilities proper to the visit of an old
servant had passed, he entered with obvious reluctance
on the purpose of his visit, namely, his dissatisfaction
with Griff as a lodger. His wife, he said,
would not have had him speak, she was that attached
to Mr. Griffith, it couldn't be more if he was her
own son ; nor was it for want of liking for the young
gentleman on his part, as had known him from a
boy, ' but the wife of one's bosom must come first,
sir, as stands to reason, and it's for the good of the
young gentleman himself, and his family, as someone
should speak. I never said one word against it
when she would not be satisfied without running the
risk of her life after Mr. Clarence ; attending of

Mr. Frith in the cholera. That was only her booty,
sir, and I have never a word to say against booty :
but I cannot see her nearly wore out, and for no
good to nobody.'

It appeared that Mrs. Eobson was ' pretty nigh
wore out, a setting up for Mr. Griffith's untimely
hours.' 'He laughed and coaxed  what I calls
cajoling  did Mr. Griff, to get a latch-key ; but we
knows our booty too well for that, and Mrs. Winslow
had made us faithfully promise, when Master
Clarence first came to us, that he should never have
a latch-key,  Mr. Clarence, as had only been five
times later than eleven o'clock, and then he was
going to dine with Mr. Castleford, or to the theater,
and spoke about it beforehand. If he was not reading
to poor Miss Newton, as was gone, or with some
of his lancniaqe-masters, he was setting: at home with
his books and papers, not giving no trouble to nobody,
after he had had his bit of bread and cheese
and glass of beer to his supper.'

Ay, Peter knew what young gentlemen was.
He did not expect to see them all like poor Master
Clarence, as had had his troubles ; the very life
knocked out of him in his youth, as one might say.
Indeed Peter would be pleased to see him a bit more
sprightly, and taking more to society and amusements
of his have. Nor would there be any objection
if the late 'ours was only once a week or so,

and things was done in a style fitting the family ;
but when it came to mostly every night, often to
two or three o'clock, it was too much for Mrs. Robson,
for she would never go to bed, being mortal afraid of
fire, and not always certain that Mr. Griffith was 
to say  fit to put out his candle.

'What do you mean, Peter?' thundered my
father, whose brow had been getting more and more
furrowed every moment. ' Say it out !  Drunk V

1 AVell sir, no, no, not to say that exactly, but a
little excited, sir, and women is timid. No, sir, not
to call intoxicated.'

No, that's to come,' muttered my father. ' Has
this often happened ?'

Peter did not think that it had been noticed
more than three times at the most ; but he went onto
offer his candid and sensible advice that Mr.
Griffith should be placed in a family where there
was a gentleman or lady who would have some
authority, and could not be put aside with his good-humoured
affability  ' You're an old fogy, Peter.'
Never mind, Nurse, I'll be a good boy next time,'
and the like. ' It is a disadvantage you see, sir, to
have been in his service, and 'tis for the young
gentleman's own good as I speaks ; but it would be
better if he were somewheres else  unless you
would speak to him, sir.'

To the almost needless question whether Clarence

had been with his brother on these occasions, there
was a most decided negative. He had never gone
out with Griffith except once to the theatre, and to
dine at the Castlefords, and at first he had sat up
for his return, 'but it led to words between the
young gentlemen,' said Peter, whose confidences were
becoming reckless ; and it appeared that when
Clarence had found that Gooch would not let him
spare her vigil, he-had obeyed her orders and ceased
to share it.

Peter was thanked for the revelations, which
had been a grievous effort to him, and dismissed.
My father sat still in great distress and perplexity,
asking me whether Clarence had ever told me anything
of this, and I had barely time to answer ' Xo '
before Clarence himself came in, from what Peter
called his language-master. He was taking lessons
in French and Spanish, finding a knowledge of these
useful in business. To his extreme distress, my
father fell on him at once, demanding what he knew
of the way Griffith was spending his time, c coming
home at all sorts of hours in a disreputable condition.
No prevarication, sir,' he added, as the only
too familiar look of consternation and bewilderment
came over Clarence's face. ' You are doing your
brother no good by conniving at his conduct. Speak
truth, if you can,' he added, with more cruelty than
he knew, in his own suffering.

Sir,' gasped Clarence, ' I know Griff often comes
home after I am in bed, but I do not know the
exact time, nor anything more.'

Is this all you can tell me ? Really all ?'

'All I know  that is  of my own knowledge,'
said Clarence, recovering a little, but still unable
to answer without hesitation, which vexed my
father.

What do you mean by that ? Do you hear
nothing V

I am afraid,' said Clarence, ' that I do not see
as much of him as I had hoped. He is not up till
after I have to be at our place, and he does not
often spend an evening at home. He is such a
popular fellow, and has so many friends and
engagements.'

Ay, and of what sort ? Can't you tell ? or
will you not ? I sent him up to you, thinking you
a steady fellow who might influence him for good.'

The colour rushed into Clarence's face, as he
answered, looking up and speaking low, ' Have I not
forfeited all such hopes ? '

1 Nonsense ! You've lived down that old story
long ago. You would make your mark, if you only
showed a little manliness and force of character.
Griffith was always fond of you. Can't you do
anything to hinder him from ruining his own life
and that sweet girl's happiness ? '

'I would  I would give my life to do so !'
exclaimed Clarence, in warm, eager tones. ' I have
tried, but he says I know nothing about it, and
it is very dull at our rooms for him. I have got
used to it, but you can't expect a fellow like Griff
to stay at home, with no better company than me,
and do nothing but read law.'

Then you do know,' began my father ; but
Clarence, with full self-possession, said, ' I think
you had better ask me no more questions, papa.
I really know nothing, or hardly anything, personally
of his proceedings. I went to one supper with
him, after going to the play, and did not fancy it ;
besides, it almost unfitted me for my morning's
work ; nor does it answer for me to sit up for
him  it only vexes him, as if I were watching
him.'

Did you ever see him come home showing traces
of excess ? '

'No !' said Clarence, ' I never saw !' and, under
a stern, distressed look, ' Once I heard tones that 
that startled me, and Mrs. Eobson has grumbled a
good deal  but I think Peter takes it for more than
it is worth.'

I see,' said my father more gently ; ' I will not
press you farther. I believe I ought to be glad
that these habits are only hearsay to you.'

As far as I can see,' said Clarence diffidently,

but quite restored to himself, ' Griff is only like
most of his set, young men who go into society.'

Oh V said my father, in a ' that's your opinion '
kind of tone ; and as at that moment the yell of a
newsboy was heard in the street, he exclaimed that
he must go and get an evening paper. Clarence
made a step to go instead, but was thrust back,
as apparently my father merely wanted an excuse
for rushing into the open air to recover the shock
or to think it over.

Clarence gave a kind of groan, and presently
exclaimed, ' If only untruth were not such a sin!'
and, on my exclamation of dismay, he added, ' I
don't think a blowing up ever does good 1'

But this state of things should not last.'

'It will not. It would have come to an end
without Peter's springing this mine. Griff says he
can't stand Gooch any longer ! And really she
does worry him intolerably.'

Peter professed to come without her knowledge
or consent.'

'Exactly so. It will almost break the good
old soul's heart for Griff to leave her; but she
expects to have him in hand as if he was in
the nursery. She is ever so much worse than
she was with me, and he is really good-nature
itself to laugh off her nagging as he does  about
what he chooses to put on, or eating, or smoking,

or leaving his room untidy, as well as other
things.'

And those other things ? Do you suspect
more than you told papa V

It amounts to no more. Griff likes amusement,
and everybody likes him  that's all. Yes, I know
my father read law ten hours a day, but his whole
nature and circumstances were different. I don't
believe Griff could go on in that way.'

Not with such a hope before him ? You would,
Clarence.'

His face and not his tongue answered me, but
he added, ' Griff is sure of that without so much
labour and trouble.'

And do you see so little of him ?'
I can't help it. I can't keep his hours and do
my work. Yes, I know we are drifting apart; I
wish I could help it, but being coupled up together
makes it rather worse than better. It aggravates
him, and he will really get on better without Gooch
to worry him, and thrust my droning old ways down
his throat,  as if Prince Hal could bear to be
twitted with " that sober boy, Lord John of Lancaster."
Not,' he added, catching himself up, ' that
I meant to compare him to the madcap Prince.
He is the finest of fellows, if they only would let
him alone.'

And that was all I could get from Clarence.

A SQUIRE OF DAMES.

1 Spited with a fool 
Spited and angered both.'

Cymbeline.

This long stay of Ellen's in our family had made
our fraternal relations with her nearer and closer.
Familiarity had been far from lessening our strong
feeling for her goodness and sweetness. Emily, who
knew her best, used to confide to me little instances
of the spirit of devotion and self discipline that
underlay all her sunny gaiety  how she never
failed in her morning's devout readings ; how she
learnt a verse or two of Scripture every day, and
persuaded Emily to join with her in repeating it ere
they went downstairs for their evening's pleasure ;
how she had set herself a little task of plain work
for the poor, which she did every day in her own
room ; and the like dutiful habits, which seemed, as
it were, to help her to keep herself in hand, and
not be carried away by what was a whirl of pleasure

to her, though a fashion able young lady would have
despised its mildness.

Indeed Lady Peacock, with whom we exchanged
calls, made no secret of her compassion when she
found how many parties the ladies were not going
to ; and Ellen's own relations, the Lesters, would
have taken her out almost every night if she had
not staunchly held to her promise to her mother
not to go out more than three evenings in the week,
for Mrs. Fordyce knew her to be delicate, and feared
late hours for her. The vexation her cousins manifested
made her feel the more bound to give them
what time she could, at hours when Griffith was not
at liberty. She did not like them to be hurt, and
jealous of us, or to feel forsaken, and she tried to
put her affection for us on a different footing by
averring that ' it was not the same kind of thing 
Emily was her sister.'

One clay she had gone to luncheon with the
Lesters in Cavendish Square, and was to be called
for in the carriage by me, on the way to take up the
other two ladies, who were shopping in Regent
Street.

Ellen came running downstairs, with her cheeks
in a glow under the pink satin lining of her pretty
bonnet, and her eyes sparkling with indignation,
which could not but break forth.

I don't know how I shall ever go there again !'

she exclaimed ; ' they have no right to say such
things !' Then she explained. Mary and Louisa
had been saying horrid things about Griffith  her
Griff! It was always their way. Think how
Horace had made her treat Clarence ! It was their
way and habit to tease, and call it fun, and she had
never minded it before; but this was too bad.
Would not I put it in her power to give a flat
contradiction, such as would make them ashamed
of themselves ?

Contradict what ?

Then it appeared that the Misses Lester had
laughed at her, who was so very particular and
scrupulous, for having taken up with a regular
young man about town. Oh no, they did not think
much of it  no doubt he was only just like other
people ; only the funny thing was that it should be
Ellen, for whom it was always supposed that no
saint in the calendar, no knight in all the Waverley
novels, would be good enough ! And then, on her
hot desire to know what they meant, they quoted
John, the brother in the Guards, as having been so
droll about poor Ellen's perfect hero, and especially
at his straightlaced Aunt Fordyce having been
taken in,  but of course it was the convenience of
joining the estates, and it was agreeable to see that
your very good folk could wink at tidings like other
people in such a case. Then, when Ellen fairly

drove her inquiries home, in her absolute trust of
confuting all slanders, she was told that Griffith did,
what she called ' all sorts of things  billiards and
all that.' And even that he was always running
after a horrid Lady Peacock, a gay widow.

They went on in fun said Ellen, ' and laughed
the more when  yes, I am afraid I did  I lost my
temper. No, don't say I well might, I know I
ought not ; but I told them I knew all about Lady
Peacock, and that you were all old friends, even
before he rescued her from the Bristol riots and
brought her home to Chantry House ; and that
only made Mary merrier than ever, and say, " What,
another distressed damsel ? Take care, Ellen ; I
would not trust such a squire of dames." And then
Louisa chimed in, " Oh no, you see this Peacock
dame was only conducted, like Princess Micomicona
and all the rest of them, to the feet of his peerless
Dulcinea !" And then I heard the knock, and I was
never so glad in my life !'

Well !' I could not help remarking, f I have
heard of women's spitefulness, but I never believed
it till now.'

1 1 really don't think it was altogether what you
call malice, so much as the Lester idea of fun said
Ellen, recovering herself after her outpouring. ' A
very odd notion I always thought it was ; and M mary
and Louisa are not really ill-natured, and cannot

wish to do the harm they might have done, if I did
not know Griff too well.'

Then, after considering a little, she said, blushing,
1 believe I have told you more than I ought,
Edward  I couldn't help having it out ; but please
don't tell any one, especially that shocking way of
speaking of mamma, which they could not really
mean.'

No one could who knew her.'

Of course not. I'll tell you what I mean todo.
I will write to Mary when we go in, and tell
her that I know she really cares for me enough to
be glad that her nonsense has done no mischief, and,
though I was so foolish and wrong as to fly into a
passion, of course I know it is only her way, and I
do not believe one word of it.'

Somehow, as she looked with those radiant eyes
full of perfect trust, I could not help longing not to
have heard Peter Robson's last night's complaint ;
but family feeling towards outsiders overcomes
many a misgiving, and my wrath against the
malignity of the Lesters was quite as strong as if I
had been devoid of all doubts whether Griff wore to
all other eyes the same halo of pure glory with
which Ellen invested him.

Such doubts were very transient. Dear old
Griff was too delightful, too bright and too brave,
too ardent and too affectionate, not to dispel all

clouds by the sunshine he carried about with him.
If rest and reliance came with Clarence, zest and
animation came with Griffith. He managed to take
the initiative by declining to remain any longer
with the Bosoms, saying they had been spoilt by
such a model lodger as Clarence, who would let
Gooch feed him on bread and milk and boiled
mutton, and put on his clean pinafore if she chose
to insist ; whereas her indignation, when Griff found
fault with the folding of his white ties, amounted to
M he, Brute,' and he really feared she would have
had a fit when he ordered devilled kidneys for breakfast.
He was sure her determination to tuck him
up every night and put out his candle was shortening
her life ; and he had made arrangements to share
the chambers of a friend who had gone through
school and college with him. There was no objection
to the friend, who had stayed at Chantry House and
was an agreeable, lively, young man, well reported
of, satisfactorily connected, fairly industrious, and in
good society, so that Griff was likely to be much
less exposed to temptation of the lower kinds than
when left to his own devices, or only with Clarence,
who had neither time nor disposition to share his
amusements.

There was a scene with my father, but in private ;
and all that came to general knowledge was that
Griff felt himself injured by any implication that

he was given to violent or excessive dissipation,
such as could wreck Ellen's happiness or his own
character.

He declared with all his heart that immediate
marriage would be the best thing for both, and
pleaded earnestly for it ; but my father could not
have arranged for it even if the Fordyce would
have consented, and there were matters of business,
as well as other reasons, which made it inexpedient
for them to revoke their decision that the wedding
should not take place before Ellen was of age and
Griffith called to the bar.

So we took our young ladies home, loaded with
presents for their beloved school children, of whom
Emily said she dreamt, as the time for seeing them
again drew near. After all the London enjoyment,
it was pretty to see the girls' delight in the fresh
country sights and sounds in full summer glory, and
how Ellen proved to have been hungering after all
her dear ones at home. When we left her at her
own door, our last sight of her was in her father's
arms, little Anne clinging to her dress, mother and
grandfather as close to her as could be  a perfect
tableau of a joyous welcome.

VOL. II.

LOVE And OBEDIENCE.

Unless lie give me all in change
I forfeit all things by him ;
The risk is terrible and strange.'

Mils. Browning.

Y r ou will be weary of my lengtliiness ; and perhaps
I am lingering too long over the earlier portion of
my narrative. Something is clue to the disproportion
assumed in our memories by the first twenty years
of existence  something, perhaps, to reluctance to
passing from comparative sunshine to shadow. There
was still a period of brightness, but it was so uneventful
that I have no excuse for dwelling on it
further than to say that Henderson, our excellent
curate, had already made a great difference in the
parish, and it was beginning to be looked on as
almost equal to Hillside. The children were devoted
to Emily, who was the source of all the amenities
of their poor little lives. The needlework of the
school was my mother's pride ; and our church and
its services, though you would shudder at them

now, were then thought presumptuously superior
for a country parish.' They were a real delight
and blessing to us, as well as to many more of the
nock, who still, in their old age, remember and revere
Parson Henderson as a sort of apostle.

The dawning of the new Poor-law led to investigations
which revealed the true conditions of
the peasant's life  its destitution, recklessness, and
dependence. We tried to mend matters by inducing
families to emigrate, but this renewed the distrust
which had at first beheld in the schools an attempt to
enslave the children. Even accounts, sent home by
the exceptionally enterprising who did go to Canada,
were, we found, scarcely trusted. Amos Bell, who
would have gone, if he had not been growing into
my special personal attendant, was letter writer and
reader to all his relations, and revealed to us that
it had been agreed that no letter should be considered
as genuine unless it bore a certain private
mark. To be sure, the accounts of prosperity
might well sound fabulous to the toilers and boilers
at home. Harriet Martineau's Hamlets, which we
lent to many of our neighbours, is a fair picture of
the state of things. eve much enjoyed those tales,
and Emily says they were the only political economy
she ever learnt.

The model arrangements of our vestries led to a
summons to my father and the younger Mr. Fordyce





to London, to be examined on the condition of the
pauper, and the working of the old Elizabethan Poor-law.


They were absent for about a fortnight of early
spring, and Emily and I could not help observing
that our mother was unusually uncommunicative
about my father's letters ; and, moreover, there was
a tremendous revolution of the furniture, a far
more ominous token in our household than any
comet.

The truth came on us when the two fathers
returned. Mine told me himself that Frank Fordyce
was so much displeased with Griffith's conduct
that he had declared that the engagement could not
continue with his consent.

This from good-natured, tender-hearted Parson
Frank !

I cried out hotly that ' those Lesters ' had done
this. They had always been set against us, and anyone
could talk over Mr. Frank. My father shook his
head. He said Frank Fordyce was not weak, but
all the stronger for his gentleness and charity ; and,
moreover, that he was quite right  to our shame
and grief be it spoken  quite right.

It was true that the first information had been
given by Sir Horace Lester, Mrs. Fordyce's brother,
but it had not been lightly spoken like the daughter's
chatter ; and my father himself had found it only

too true, so that he could not conscientiously call
Griffith worthy of such a creature as Ellen Fordyce.

Poor Griff, he had been idle and impracticable
over his legal studies, which no persuasion would
make him view as otherwise than a sort of nominal
training for a country gentleman ; nor had he ever
believed or acted upon the fact that the Earlscombe
property was not an unlimited fortune, such as would
permit him to dispense with any profession, and spend
time and money like the youths with whom he associated.
Still, this might have been condoned as part
of the effervescence which had excited him ever since
my father had succeeded to the estate, and patience
might still have waited for greater wisdom ; but there
had been graver complaints of irregularities, which
were forcing his friend to dissolve partnership with
him. There was evidence of gambling, which he
not only admitted, but defended ; and, moreover, he
was known at parties, at races, and at the theatre,
as one of the numerous satellites who revolved about
that gay and conspicuous young fashionable widow,
Lady Peacock.

Yes, Frank has every right to be angry,' said my
father, pacing the room. ' I can't wonder at him.
I should do the same ; but it is destroying the best
hope for my poor boy.'

Then he began to wish Clarence had more  he
knew not what to call it  in him ; something that

might keep his brother straight. For, of course, he
had talked to Clarence and discovered how very
little the brothers saw of one another. Clarence had
been to look for Griff in vain more than once, and
they had only really met at a Castleford dinner-party.
In fact, Clarence's youthful spirits, and the
tastes which would have made him companionable
to Griff, had been crushed out of him ; and he was
what more recent slang calls 'such a muff,' that
he had perforce drifted out of our elder brother's
daily life, as much as if he had been a grave senior
of fifty. It was, as he owned, a heavy penalty of
his youthful fall that he could not help his brother
more effectually.

It appeared that Frank Fordyce, thoroughly
roused, had had it out with Griffith, and had declared
that his consent was withdrawn and the engagement
annulled. Griff, astounded at the resolute tone of
one whom he considered as the most good-natured
of men, had answered hotly and proudly that he
should accept no dismissal except from Ellen herself,
and that he had done no more than was expected of
any young man of position and estate. On the
other indictment he scorned any defence, and the
two had parted in mutual indignation. He had,
however, shown himself so much distressed at the
threat of being deprived of Ellen, that neither my
father nor Clarence had the least doubt of his genuine

attachment to her, nor that his attentions to Lady
Peacock were more than the effect of old habit and
love of amusement, and that they had been much
exaggerated. He scontecl the bare idea of preferring
her to Ellen ; and, in his second interview with my
father, was ready to make any amount of promises
of reformation, provided his engagement were continued.


This was on the last evening before leaving town,
and he came to the coach-office looking so pale,
jaded, and unhappy that Parson Prank's kind heart
was touched ; and in answer to a muttered ' I've been
ten thousand fools, sir, but if you will overlook it I
will try to be worthy of her,' he made some reply
that could be construed into, ' If you keep to that,
all may yet be well. I'll talk to her mother and
grandfather.'

Perhaps this was cruel kindness, for, as we well
knew, Mrs. Fordyce was far less likely to be tolerant
of a young man's failings than was her husband ;
and she was, besides, a Lester, and might take the
same view.

Abusing the Lesters was our great resource ; for
we did not believe either the sailor or the guardsman
to be immaculate, and we knew them to be jealous.
We had to remain in ignorance of what we most
wished to know, for Ellen was kept away from us,
and my mother would not let Emily go in search of

her. Only Anne, who was a high-spirited, independent
little person, made a sudden rush upon meas
I sat in the garden. She had no business to be
so far from home alone ; but, said she, ' I don't care,
it is all so horrid. Please, Edward, is it true that
Griff has been so very wicked ? I heard the maids
talking, and they said papa had found out that he
was a bad lot, and that he was not to marry Ellen ;
but she would stick to him through thick and
thin, like poor Kitty Brown who would marry
the man that got transported for seven years.'
Will he be transported, Edward ? and would Ellen
go too, like the " nut-brown maid ?" Is that what
she cries so about ? Not by day, but all night.
I know she does, for her handkerchief is wet
through, and there is a wet place on her pillow
always in the morning ; but she only says, " Never
mind," and nobody will tell me. They only say
little girls should not think about such things.
And I am not so very little. I am eight, and have
read the Lay of the Last Minstrel and I know all
about people in love. So you might tell me.'

I relieved Anne's mind as to the chances of
transportation, and, after considering how many confidences
might be honourably exchanged with the
child, I explained that her father thought Griff had
been idle and careless, and not fit as yet to be
trusted with Ellen.

Her parish experience came into play. ' Does
papa think he would be like Joe Sparks ? But
then gentlemen don't beat their wives, nor go to the
public-house, nor let their children go about in rags.'

I durst not inquire much, but I gathered that
there was a heavy shadow over the house, and that
Ellen was striving to do as usual, but breaking
down when alone. Just then Parson Frank appeared.
Anne had run away from him while on a farming
inspection, when the debate over the turnips with
the factotum had become wearisome. He looked
grave and sorrowful, quite unlike his usual hearty
self, and came to me, leaning over my chair, and
saying, ' This is sad work, Edward ' ; and, on an
anxious venture of an inquiry for Ellen, ' Poor little
maid, it is very sore work with her. She is a good
child and obedient  wants to do her duty ; but we
should never have let it go on so long. We have
only ourselves to thank  taking the family character,
you see '  and he made a kindly gesture towards
me. ' Your father sees how it is, and won't let it
make a split between us. I believe that not seeing
as much of your sister as usual is one of my poor
lassie's troubles, but it may be best  it may be best.'

He lingered, talking, unwilling to tear himself
away, and ended by disclosing, almost at unawares,
that Ellen had held out for a long time, would not
understand nor take in what she was told, accepted

nothing on Lester authority, declared she understood
all about Lady Peacock, and showed a strength of
resistance and independence of view that had quite
startled her parents, by proving how far their darling-had
gone from them in heart. But they still held
her by the bonds of obedience ; and, by dealing with
her conscience, her mother had obtained from her a
piteous little note 

'My dear Griffith  I am afraid it is true that
you have not always seemed to be doing right, and
papa and mamma forbid our going on as we are.
You know I cannot be disobedient. It would not
bring a blessing on you. So I must break off,
though '

The ' though ' could be read through an erasure,
followed by the initials, E. M. F.  as if the dismal
conclusion had been felt to be only too true  and
there followed the postscript, ' Forgive me, and, if weare
patient, it may come right.'

This letter was displayed, when, on the ensuing
evening, it brought Griff down in towering indignation,
and trying to prove the coercion that must
have been exercised to extract even thus much from
his darling. Over he went headlong to Hillside to
insist on seeing her, but to encounter a succession
of stormy scenes. Mrs. Fordyce was the most
resolute, but was ill for a week after. The old
Eector was gentle, and somewhat overawed Griff by

his compassion, and by representations that were
only too true ; and Parson Frank, with his tender
heart torn to pieces, showed symptoms of yielding
another probation.

The interview with Ellen was granted. She, however,
was intrenched in obedience. She had promised
submission to the rupture of her engagement,
and she kept her word,  though she declared that
nothing could hinder her love, and that she would
wait patiently till her lover had proved himself, to
everybody's satisfaction, as good and noble as she
knew him to be. When he told her she did not
love him she smiled. She was sure that whatever
mistakes there might have been, he would give no
further occasion against himself, and then every one
would see that all had been mere misunderstanding,
and they should be happy again.

Such trust humbled him, and he was ready to
make all promises and resolutions ; but he could not
obtain the renewal of the engagement, nor permission
to correspond. Only there was wrung out of Parson
Frank a promise that if he could come in two years
with a perfectly unstained, unspotted character, the
betrothal might be renewed.

We were very thankful for the hope and motive,
and Griff had no doubts of himself.

One can't look at the pretty creature and think
of disappointing her,' he said. ' She is altered, you

know, Ted ; they've bullied her till she is more
ethereal than ever, but it only makes her lovelier.
I believe if she saw me kill some one on the spot
she would think it all my generosity ; or, if she
could not, she would take and die. Oh no ! I'll
not fail her. No, I won't ; not if I have to spend
seven years after the model of old Bill, whose
liveliest pastime is a good long sermon, when it is
not a ghost.'

UNA OR DUESSA.

Soone as the Elfin knight in presence came
And false Duessa, seeming lady fare,
A gentle hushed, Vanities by name,
Made roome, and passage did for them prepare. '

Spenser.

The two families were supposed to continue on
unbroken terms of friendship, and we men did so ;
but Mrs. Eordyce told my mother that she had
disapproved of the probation, and Mrs. Winslow
was hurt. Though the two girls were allowed to
be together as usual, it was on condition of silence
about Griff; and though, as Emily said, they really
had not been always talking about him in former
times, the prohibition seemed to weigh upon all
they said.

Old Mr. Fordyce had long been talking of a
round of visits among relations whom he had not
seen for many years ; and it was decided to send
Ellen with him, chiefly, no doubt, to prevent difficulties
about Griffith in the long vacation.

There was no embargo on the correspondence

with my sister, and letters full of description came
regularly, but how unlike they were to our journal.
They were clear, intelligent, with a certain liveliness,
but no ring of youthful joy, no echo of the heart,
always as if under restraint. Griff was much disappointed.
He had been on his good behaviour
for two months, and expected his reward, and I
could not here repeat all that he said about her
parents when he found she was absent. Yet, after
all, he got more pity and sympathy from Parson
Frank than from any one else. That good man
actually sent a message for him, when Emily was
on honour to do no such thing. Poor Emily
suffered much in consequence, when she would
neither afford Griff a blank corner of her paper, nor
write even a veiled message ; while as to the letters
she received and gave to him, 'what was the use,'
he said, ' of giving him what might have been read
aloud by the town crier ? '

c You don't understand, Griff ; it is all dear Ellen's
conscientiousness '

Oh, deliver me from such con-sci-en-tious-ness,'
he answered, in a tone of bitter mimicry, and flung
out of the room leaving Emily in tears.

He could not appreciate the nobleness of Ellen's
self-command and the obedience which was the
security of future happiness, but was hurt at what
he thought weak alienation. One note of sympathy

would have done much for Griff just then. I have
often thought it over since, and come to the conclusion
that Mrs. Fordyce was justified in the entire
separation she brought about. No one can judge
of the strength with which ' true love ' has mastered
any individual, nor how far change may be possible ;
and, on the other hand, unless there were full
appreciation of Ellen's character, she might only
have been looked on as 

Puppet to a father's threat,
Servile to a shrewish tongue.'

Yet, after all, Frank Fordyce was very kind to Griff,
making himself as much of a medium of communication
as he could consistently with his conscience, but
of course not satisfying one who believed that the
strength of love was to be proved not by obedience
but disobedience.

Ellen's letters showed increasing anxiety about
her grandfather, who was not favourably affected
by the change of habits, consequent on a long-journey,
and staying in different houses. His
return was fixed two or three times, and then
delayed by slight attacks of illness, till at last he
became anxious to get home, and set off about the
end of September; but after sleeping a night at
an inn at Warwick, he was too ill to proceed any
farther. His old man-servant was with him ; but

poor Ellen went through a great deal of suspense
and responsibility before her parents reached her.
The attack was paralysis, aud he never recovered
the full powers of mind or body, though they
managed to bring him back to Hillside  as indeed
his restlessness longed for his native home. When
once there he became calmer, but did not rally ; and
a second stroke proved fatal just before Easter. He
was mourned alike by rich and poor, 'He was a
gentleman,' said even Chapman, ' always the same
to rich or poor, though he was one of they Fordys.'

My father wrote to summon both his elder
sons to the funeral at Hillside, and in due time
Clarence appeared by the coach, but alone. He
had gone to Griffith's chambers to arrange about
coming down together, but found my father's letter
lying unopened on the table, and learnt that his
brother was supposed to be staying at a villa in
Surrey, where there were to be private theatricals.
He had forwarded the letter thither, and it would
still be possible to arrive in time by the night mail.

So entirely was Griff expected that the gig was
sent to meet him at seven o'clock the next morning,
but there was no sign of him. My father and
Clarence went without him to the gathering, which
showed how deeply the good old man was respected
and loved.

It was the only funeral Clarence had attended

except Miss Newton's hurried one, and his sensitive
spirit was greatly affected. He had learnt reserve
when amongst others, but I found that he had a
strong foreboding of evil ; he tossed and muttered
in his sleep, and confessed to having had a wretched
night of dreams, though he would not describe them
otherwise than that he had seen the lady whose face
he always looked on as a presage of evil.

Two days later the Morning Post gave a full
account of the amateur theatricals at Bella Vista,
the seat of Benjamin Bullock, Esquire, and the
Lady Louisa Bullock ; and in the list of dramatis
personae, there figured Griffith Winslow, Esquire, as
Captain Absolute, and the fair and accomplished
Lady Peacock as Lydia Languish.

Amateur theatricals were much less common in
those days than at present, and were held as the
ne plus ultra of gaiety. Moreover, the Lady Louisa
Bullock was noted for fashionable extravagance of
the semi-reputable style; and there would have
been vexation enough at Griffith's being her guest,
even had not the performance taken place on the
very clay of the funeral of Ellen's grandfather, so
as to be an outrage on decorum.

At the same time, there came a packet franked
by a not very satisfactory peer, brother to Lady
Louisa. My father threw a note over to Clarence,
and proceeded to read a very properly expressed

VOL. II. F

letter full of apologies and condolences for the
Forclyces.

He could not have got the letter in time ' was
my father's comment. ' When did you forward the
letter ? How was it addressed ? Clarence, I say,
didn't you hear ? '

Clarence lifted up his face from his letter, so
much flushed that my mother broke in  'What's
the matter? A mistake in the post-town would
account for the delay. Has he had the letter ?'

Oh yes.'

'Not in time  eh ?'

I'm afraid,' and he faltered, ' he did.'

'Did he or did he not ?' demanded my mother.

What does he say ? ' exclaimed my father.

Sir ' (always an unpropitious beginning for poor
Clarence), ' I should prefer not showing you.'

Nonsense !' exclaimed my mother : ' you do no
good by concealing it !'

Let me see his letter,' said my father, in the
voice there was no gainsaying, and absolutely taking
it from Clarence. None of us will ever forget the
tone in which he read it aloud at the breakfast-table.


'Dear Bill  What possessed you to send a
death's-head to the feast ? The letter would have
bitten no one in my chambers. A nice scrape I

shall be iu if you let out that your officious precision
forwarded it. Of course at the last moment I could
not upset the whole affair and leave Lydia to
languish in vain. The whole thing went off magnificently.
Keep counsel and no harm is done. You
owe me that for sending on the letter.  Yours,

J. G. W.'

Clarence had not read to the end when the
letter was taken from him. Indeed to inclose such
a note in a dispatch sure to be opened en famille
was one of Griffith's haphazard proceedings, which
arose from the present being always much more to
him than the absent. Clarence was much shocked
at hearing these last sentences, and exclaimed, ' He
meant it in confidence, papa ; I implore you to
treat it as unread !'

My father was always scrupulous about private
letters, and said, ' I beg your pardon, Clarence ; I
should not have forced it from you. I wish I hall
not seen it.'

My mother gave something between a snort and
a sigh. ' It is right for us to know the truth,' she
said, ' but that is enough. There is no need that
they should know at Hillside what was Griffith's
alternative.'

I would not add a pang to that dear girl's
grief,' said my father; 'but I see the Fordyce were

right. I shall never do anything to bring these
two together again.'

My mother chimed in with something about preferring
Lady Peacock and the Bella Vista crew to
Ellen and Hillside, which made us rush into the
breach with incoherent defence.

I know how it was said Clarence. ' His acting
capital, and of course these people could not
spare him, nor understand how much it signified
that he should be here. They make so much of
him.'

Who do V asked my mother. ' Lady Peacock ?
How do you know ? Have you been with them ? '

I have dined at Mr. Clarkson's,' Clarence
avowed ; and, on further pressure, it was extracted
that Griffith  handsome, and with talents such as
tell in society  was a general favourite, and much
engrossed by people who found him an enlivenment
and ornament to their parties. There had been
little or nothing of late of the former noisy, boyish
dissipation ; but that the more fashionable varieties
were getting a hold on him became evident under the
cross-questioning to which Clarence had to submit.

My father said he felt like a party to a falsehood
when he sent Griff's letter up to Hillside, and he
indemnified himself by writing a letter more indignant
 not than was just, but than was prudent,
especially in the case of one little accustomed to

strong censure. Indeed Clarence could not restrain
a slight groan when he perceived that our mother
was shut up in the study to assist in the composition.
Her denunciations always outran my father's,
and her pain showed itself in bitterness. c I ought
to have had the presence of mind to refuse to show
the letter he said ; ' Griff will hardly forgive me.'

Ellen looked very thin, and with a transparent
delicacy of complexion. She had greatly grieved
over her grandfather's illness and the first change
in her happy home ; and she must have been much
disappointed at Griffith's absence. Emily dreaded
her mention of the subject when they first met.

But said my sister, ' she said no word of him.
All she cared to tell me was of the talks she had
with her grandfather, when he made her read his
favourite chapters in the Bible; and though he had
no memory for outside things, his thoughts were as
beautiful as ever. Sometimes his face grew so full
of glad contemplation that she felt quite awestruck,
as if it w T ere becoming like the face of an angel.
It made her realise, she said, "how little the ups
and downs of this life matter, if there can be such
peace at the last." And, after all, I could not help
thinking that it was better perhaps that Griff did
not come. Any other sort of talk would have jarred
on her just now, and you know he would never
stand much of that.'

Much as we loved our Griff, we had come to the
perception that Ellen was a treasure he could not
esteem properly.

The Lester cousins, never remarkable for good
taste, forced on her the knowledge of his employment.
Her father could not refrain from telling us
that her exclamation had been, ' Poor Griff, how
shocked he must be ! He was so fond of dear
grandpa. Pray, papa, get Mr. Winslow to let
him know that I am not hurt, for I know he could
not help it. Or may I ask Emily to tell him so ? '

I wish Mrs. Fordyce would have absolved her
from the promise not to mention Griff to us. That
innocent reliance might have touched him, as Emily
would have narrated it; but it only rendered my
father more indignant, and more resolved to reserve
the message till a repentant apology should come.
And, alas ! none ever came. Just wrath on a voiceless
paper has little effect. There is reason to believe
that Griff did not like the air of my father's
letter, and never even read it. He diligently avoided
Clarence, and the pain and shame his warm heart
must have felt only made him keep out of reach.

Families DESCENSUS.

The slippery verge her feet beguiled ;
She tumbled headlong in. '

Gray.

Oxe of Griffith's briefest notes in his largest hand
announced that he had accepted various invitations
to country houses, for cricket matches, archery meetings,
and the like ; nor did he even make it clear
where his address would be, except that he would
be with a friend in Scotland when grouse-shooting
began.

Clarence, however, came home for a brief holiday.
He was startled at the first sight of Ellen. He said
she was indeed lovelier than ever, with an added
sweetness in her clear eyes and the wild rose flush
in her delicate cheek ; but that she looked as if she
was being refined away to nothing, and was more
than ever like the vision with the lamp.

Of course the Fordyce had not been going into
society, though Ellen and Emily were as much
together as before, helping one another in practising

their school children in singing, and sharing in one
another's studies and pursuits. There had been in
the spring a change at Wattleseaea ; the old incumbent
died, and the new one was well reported of as a very
earnest hardworking man. He seemed to be provided
with a large family, and there was no driving into
Wattleseaea without seeing members of it scattered
about the place.

The Fordyce being anxious to show them attention
without a regular dinner-party, decided on
inviting all the family to keep Anne's ninth birthday,
and Emily and Martyn were of course to come
and assist at the entertainment.

It was on the morning of the day fixed that a
letter came to me whose contents seemed to burn
themselves into my brain. Martyn called across the
breakfast-table, ' Look at Edward ! Has any one
sent you a young basilisk?'

I wish it was,' I gasped out.

Don't look so,' entreated Emily. ' Tell us ! Is
it Griff?'

Not ill  hurt ? ' cried my mother.

Oh no, no. Worse !' and then somehow I
articulated that he was married ; and Clarence
exclaimed, 'Not the Peacock!' and at my gesture
my father broke out. ' He has clone for himself,
the unhappy boy. A disgraceful Scotch marriage.
Eh?'

It was his sense of honour I managed to utter.

Sense of fiddlestick S ' said my poor father.
1 Don't stop to excuse him. We've had enough of
that ! Let us hear.'

I cannot give a copy of the letter. It was so
painful that it was destroyed ; for there was a tone
of bravado betraying his uneasiness, but altogether
unbecoming. All that it disclosed was, that someone
staying in the same house had paid insulting
attentions to Lady Peacock ; she had thrown herself
on our brother's protection, and after interfering on
her behalf, he had found that there was no means of
sheltering her but by making her his wife. This
had been effected by the assistance of the lady of the
house where they had been staying; and Griffith
had written to me two days later from Edinburgh,
declaring that Selina had only to be known to beloved,
and to overcome all prejudices.

Prejudices,' said my father bitterly. ' Prejudices
in favour of truth and honour.'

And my mother uttered the worst reproach of
all, when in my agitation, I slipped and almost fell
in rising  ' Oh, my poor Edward ! that I should
have lived to think yours the least misfortune that
has befallen my sons !'

'Nay, mother,' said Clarence, putting Martyn
toward her, ' here is one to make up for us all.'

1 Clarence,' said my father, ' your mother did not

mean anything but that you and Edward are the
comfort of our lives. I wish there were a chance of
Griffith redeeming the past as you have done ; but
I see no hope of that. A man is never ruined till
he is married.'

At that moment there was a step in the hall, a
knock at the door, and there stood Mr. Frank
Fordyce. He looked at us and said, ' It is true
then.'

To our shame and sorrow it is,' said my father.
Fordyce, how can we look you in the face ? '

As my dear good friend, and my father's,' said
the kind man, shaking him by the hand heartily.
Do you think we could blame you for this youth's
conduct ? Stay '  for we young ones were about to
leave the room. ' My poor girl knows nothing yet.
Her mother luckily got the letter in her bedroom.
We can't put off the Keynolclses, you know, so I
came to ask the young people to come up as if
nothing had happened, and then Ellen need know
nothing till the day is over.'

1 If I can,' said Emily.

You can be capable of self-command, I hope,'
said my mother severely, ' or you do not deserve to
be called a friend.'

Such speeches might not be pleasant, but they
were bracing, and we all withdrew to leave the
elders to talk it over together, when, as I believe,

kind Parson Frank was chiefly concerned to argue
my parents out of their shame and humiliation.

Clarence told us what he knew or guessed ; and
we afterwards understood the matter to have come
about chiefly through poor Griff's weakness of character,
and love of amusement and flattery. The
boyish flirtation with Selina Clarkson had never
entirely died away, though it had been nothing more
than the elder woman's bantering patronage and
easy acceptance of the youth's equally gay, jesting
admiration. It had, however, involved some raillery
on his attachment to the little Egotistical country
girl, and this gradually grew into jealousy of her 
especially as Griff became more of a man, and a
brilliant member of society. The detention from
the funeral had been a real victory on the widow's
part, and the few times when Clarence had seen
them together he had been dismayed at the cavaliers
serviente terms on which Griff seemed to stand ; but
his words of warning were laughed down. The rest
was easy to gather. He had gone about on the
round of visits almost as an appendage to Lady
Peacock, till they came to a free and easy house,
where her coquetry and love of admiration brought
on one of those disputes which rendered his championship
needful ; and such defence could only have one
conclusion, especially in Scotland, where hasty private
marriages were still legal. What an exchange '.

Only had Griff ever comprehended the worth of his
treasure ?

Emily went as late as she could, that there
might be the less chance of a tete-astute, in which
she might be surprised into a betrayal of her secret ;
indeed she only started at last when Martyn's
impatience had become intolerable.

What was our amazement when, much earlier
than we expected, we saw Mr. Eordyce driving up
in his phaeton, and heard the story he had to tell.

Emily's delay had succeeded in bringing her
only just in time for the luncheon that was to bethe
children's dinner. There was a keen-looking,
active, sallow clergyman, grizzled, and with an air
of having seen much service ; a pale, worn wife,
with a gentle, sensible face ; and a bewildering flock
of boys and girls, all apparently under the command
of a very brisk, effective-looking elder sister of fourteen
or fifteen, who seemed to be the readiest
authority, and to decide what and how much each
might partake of, among delicacies, evidently rare
novelties.

The day was late in August. The summer had
broken ; there had been rain, and, though fine, the
temperature was fitter for active sports than anything
else. Croquet was not yet invented, and, besides,
most of the party were of the age for regular games
at play. Ellen and Emily did their part in starting

these  finding, however, that the Reynolds boys were
rather rough, in spite of the objurgations of their
sister, who evidently thought herself quite beyond
the age for romps. The sports led them to the
great home-field on the opposite slope of the ridge
from our own. The new farm-buildings were on
the level ground at the bottom to the right, where
the declivity was much more gradual than to the
left, which was very steep, and ended in furze bushes
and low rosewood. It was voted a splendid place
for hide-and-seek, and the game was soon in such
full career that Ellen, who had had quite running
enough, could fall out of it, and with her, the other
two elder girls. Emily felt Fanny Reynolds' presence
a sort of protection, ' little guessing what she
was up to,' to use her own expression. Perhaps the
girl had not earlier made out who Emily was, or
she had been too much absorbed in her cares ; but,
as the three sat resting on a stump overlooking the
hill, she was prompted by the singular inopportune-ness
of precocious fourteen to observe, ' I ought to
have congratulated you, Miss Winslow.'

Emily gabbled out, ' Thank you, never mind,'
hoping thus to put a stop to whatever might becoming
; but there was no such good fortune. ' We
saw it in the paper. It is your brother, isn't it ? '

'What?' asked unsuspicious Ellen, thinking, no
doubt, of some fresh glory to Griffith.

And before Emily could utter a word, if there
were any she could have uttered, out it came. ' The
marriage  John Griffith Winslow, Esquire, eldest
son of John Edward Winslow of Chantry House, to
Selina, relict of Sir Henry Peacock and daughter of
George Clarkson, Esquire, Q.C. I didn't think it
could be you at first, because you would have been
at the wedding.'

Emily had not even time to meet Ellen's eyes
before they were startled by a shriek that was not
the merry ' whoop ' and ' I spy ' of the game, and,
springing up, the girls saw little Anne Fordyce
rushing headlong down the very steepest part of the
slope, just where it ended in an extremely muddy
pool, the watering-place of the cattle. The child
was totally unable to stop herself, and so was Martyn,
who was dashing after her. Not a word was said,
though, perhaps, there was a shriek or two, but the
elder sisters flew with one accord towards the pond.
They also were some way above it, but at some distance
off, so that the descent was not so perpendicular,
and they could guard against overrunning
themselves. Ellen, perhaps from knowing the
ground better, was far before the other two ; but
already poor little Anne had gone straight down,
and fallen flat on her face in the water, Martyn
after her, perhaps with a little more free will, for,
though he too fell, he was already struggling to lift

Anne up, and had her head above water, when
Ellen arrived and dashed in to assist.

The pond began by being shallow, but the bottom
sloped clown into a deep hollow, and w T as besides
covered several feet deep with heavy cattle-trodden
mire and weeds, in which it was almost impossible
to gain a footing, or to move. By the time Emily
and Miss Eeynolds had come to the brink, Ellen
and Martyn were standing up in the water, leaning
against one another, and holding poor little Anne's
head up  all they could do. Ellen called out,
Don't ! don't come in ! Call some one ! The

farm ! We are sinking in You can't help !

Call '

The danger was really terrible of their sinking
in the mud and weeds, and being sucked into the
deep part of the pool, and they were too far in to be
reached from the bank. Emily perceived this, and
ran as she had never run before, happily meeting
on the way with the gentlemen, who had been inspecting
the new model farm - buildings, and had
already taken alarm from the screams.

They found the three still with their heads above
water, but no more, for every struggle to get up the
slope only plunged them deeper in the horrible
mud. Moreover, Fanny Eeynolds w T as up to her
ankles in the mud, holding by one of her brothers,
but unable to reach Martyn. It seems she had

had some idea of forming a chain of hands to pull
the others out.

Even now the rescue was not too easy. Mr.
Fordyce hurried in, and took Anne in his arms ; but,
even with his height and strength, he found his feet
slipping away under him, and could only hand the
little insensible girl to Mr. Eeynolds, bidding him
carry her at once to the house, while he lifted
Martyn up only just in time, and Ellen clung to
him. Thus weighted, he could not get out, till the
bailiff and another man had brought some faggots
and a gate that were happily near at hand, and
helped him to drag the two out, perfectly exhausted,
and Martyn hardly conscious. They both were
carried to the Eectory,  Ellen by her father, Martyn
by the foreman,  and they were met at the door by
the tidings that little Anne was coming; to herself.

Indeed, by the time Mr. Eordyce had put on
dry clothes, all three were safe in warm beds, and
quite themselves again, so that he trusted that no
mischief was done ; though he decided upon fetching
my mother to satisfy herself about Martyn. However,
a ducking was not much to a healthy fellow
like Martyn, and my mother found him quite fit to
dress himself in the clothes she brought, and to
return home with her. Both the girls were asleep,
but Ellen had had a shivering fit, and her mother
was with her, and was anxious. Emily told her

mother of Fanny Reynolds' unfortunate speech, and
it was thought right to mention it. Mrs. Fordyce
listened kindly, kissed Emily, and told her not to
be distressed, for possibly it might turn out to have
been the best thing for Ellen to have learnt the fact
at such a moment ; and, at any rate, it had spared
her parents some doubt and difficulty as to the
communication.

VOL. II.

WALT, Way.

And am I then forgot, forgot ?
It broke the heart of Ellen ! '

Campbell.

Clarence and Martyn walked over to Hillside the
first thing the next morning to inquire for the two
sisters. As to one, they were quickly reassured, for
Anne was in the porch feeding the doves, and no
sooner did she see them than out she flew, and was
clinging round Martyn's neck, her hat falling back
as she kissed him on both cheeks, with an eagerness
that made him, as Clarence reported, turn the colour
of a lobster, and look shy, not to say sheepish, while
she exclaimed, ' Oh, Martyn ! mamma says she never
thanked you, for you really and truly did save my
life, and I am so glad it was you '

It was not I, it was Ellen,' gruffly muttered
Martyn.

Oh yes ! but papa says I should have been
smothered in that horrid mud, before Ellen could
get to me if you had not pulled me up directly.'

The elders came out by this time, and Clarence
was able to get in his inquiry. Ellen had had a
feverish night, and her chest seemed oppressed, but
her mother did not think her seriously ill. Once
she had asked, ' Is it true, what Fanny Eeynolds
said V and on being answered, 'Yes, my dear, I am
afraid it is,' she had said no more; and as the Fordyce
habit of treating colds was with sedatives, her mother
thought her scarcely awake to the full meaning of
the tidings, and hoped to prevent her dwelling on
them till she had recovered the physical shock.
Having answered these inquiries, the two parents
turned upon Martyn, who, in an access of shamefacedness,
had crept behind Clarence and a great
orange-tree, and was thence pulled out by Anne's
vigorous efforts. The full story had come to light.
The Eeynolds' boys had grown boisterous as soon as
the restraint of the young ladies' participation had
been removed, and had, whether intentionally or not,
terrified little Anne in the chases of hide-and-seek.
Finally, one of them had probably been unable to
withstand the temptation of seeing her timid nervous
way of peeping and prying about ; and had, without
waiting to be properly found, leapt out of his lair
with a roar that scared the little girl nearly out of
her wits, and sent her flying, she knew not whither.
Martyn was a few steps behind, only not holding
her hand, because the other children had derided

her for clinging to his protection. He had instantly
seen where she was going, and shouted to her to
stop and take care ; but she was past attending to
him, and he had no choice but to dart after her,
seeing what was inevitable ; while George Eeynolds
had sense to stop in time, and seek a safer descent.
Had Martyn not been there to raise the child
instantly from the stifling mud, her sister could
hardly have been in time to save her.

Mrs. Eordyce tearfully kissed him ; her husband
called him a little hero, as if in joke, then gravely
blessed him ; and he looked, Clarence related, as
if he had been in the greatest possible disgrace.

It was the second time that one of us had saved
a life from drowning, but there was none of the
exultation we had felt that time before in London.
It was a much graver feeling, where the danger had
really been greater, and the rescue had been of one
so dear to us. It was tempered likewise by anxiety
about our dear Ellen  ours, alas, no longer ! She
was laid up for several days, and it was thought
better that she should not see Emily till she had
recovered ; but after a week had passed, her father
drove over to discuss some plans for the Poor-law
arrangements, and begged my sister to go
back in the carriage and spend the day with his
daughter.

"We brothers could now look forward to some

real intelligence ; we became restless ; and in the
afternoon Clarence and I set out with the donkey-chair
on the woodland path to meet Emily. We
gained more than we had hoped, for as we came
round one of the turns in the winding path, up the
hanging beech-wood, we came on the two friends 
Ellen, a truly Una-like figure, in her white dress with
her black scarf making a sable stole. Perhaps we
betrayed some confusion, for there was a bright flush
on her cheeks as she came towards us, and, standing
straight up, said, ' Clarence, Edward, I am so glad
you are here ; I wanted to see you. I wanted  to
say  I know he could not help it. It was his
generosity  helping those that need it; and  and
I'm not angry. And though that's all over, you'll
always be my brothers, won't you V

She held her outstretched hands to us both.
I could not help it, I drew her down, and kissed
her brow ; Clarence clasped her other hand and
held it to his lips, but neither of us could utter a
word.

She turned back and went quietly away through
the wood, while Emily sank down under the beech-tree
in a paroxysm of grief. You may see which it
was, for Clarence cut out ' E. M. F., 1835' upon the
bark. He soothed and caressed poor Emily as in
old nursery troubles ; and presently she told us that
it would be long before we saw that dear one again,

for Mrs. Fordyce was going to take her away on the
morrow.

Mrs. Fordyce had seen Emily in private, before
letting her go to Ellen. There was evidently a great
wish to be kind. Mrs. Fordyce said she could never
forget what she owed to us all, and could not think
of blaming any of us. ' But,' she said, ' you are a
sensible girl, Emily  'how I hate being called a
sensible girl,' observed the poor child, in parenthesis,
' and you must see that it is desirable not to encourage
her to indulge in needless discussion after
she once understands the facts.' She added that
she thought a cessation of present intercourse would
be wise till the sore was in some degree healed.
She had not been satisfied about her daughter's
health for some time, and meant to take her to Bath
the next day to consult a physician, and then decide
what would be best. ( And, my dear,' she said, ' if
there should be a slackening of correspondence, do
not take it as unkindness, but as a token that my
poor child is recovering her tone. Do not discontinue
whiting to her, but be guarded, and perhaps
less rapid, in replying.'

It was for her friendship that poor Emily
wept so bitterly  the first friendship that had
been an enthusiasm to her ; looking at it as a
cruel injustice that Griffs misdoing should separate
them. The prediction that all might be lived down

and forgotten was too vague and distant to be
much consolation; indeed, we were too young to
take it in.

We had it all over again in a somewhat grotesque
form when, at another turn in the wood, we came
upon Martyn and Anne, loaded with treasures from
their robbers' cave, some of which were bestowed in
my chair, the others carried off between Anne and
her not very willing nursery-maid.

Anne kissed us all round, and augured cheerfully
that she should lay up a store of shells and
rocks by the seaside to make ' a perfect Robinson
Crusoe cavern,' she said, 'and then Clarence can
come and be the Spaniards and the savages. But
that won't be till next summer,' she added, shaking
her head. ' I shall get Ellen to tell Emily what
shells I find, and then she can tell Martyn ; for
mamma says girls never write to boys unless they
are their brothers ! And now Martyn will never be
my brother,' she added ruefully.

You will always be our darling,' I said.

That's not the same as your sister,' she answered.
However, amid auguries of the combination of
robbers and Robinson Crusoe, the parting was effected,
and Anne borne off by the maid ; while we had
Martyn on our hands, stamping about and declaring
that it was very hard that because Griff chose to bea
faithless, inconstant ruffian, all his pleasure and

comfort in life should be stopped ! He said such
outrageous things that, between scolding him and
laughing at him, Emily had been somewhat cheered
by the time we reached the house.

My father had written to Griffith, in his first displeasure,
curt wishes that he might not have reason
to repent of the step he had taken, though he had
not gone the right way to obtain a blessing. As it
was not suitable that a man should be totally
dependent on his wife, his allowance should be continued
; but under present circumstances he must
perceive that he and Lady Peacock could not be
received at Chantry House. We were shown the
letter, and thought it terribly brief and cold ;
but my mother said it would be weak to offer
forgiveness that was not sought, and my father
was specially exasperated at the absence of all contrition
as to the treatment of Ellen. All Griff had
vouchsafed on that head was  the rupture had been
the Fordyce' doing ; he was not bound. As to
intercourse with him, Clarence and I might act as
we saw fit.

Only,' said my father, as Clarence was leaving
home, ' I trust you not to get yourself involved in
this set.'

Clarence gave a queer smile, ' They would not
take me as a gift, papa.'

And as my father turned from the hall door,

he laid his hand on his wife's arm, and said, ' Who
would have told us what that young fellow would
be to us ? '

She sighed, and said, ' He is not twenty-three ; he
has plenty of money, and is very fond of Griff.'

THE RIVER'S BANK.

And my friend rose up in the shadows,

And turned to me,
Be of good cheer," I said faintly,

For He called thee' B. M.

Mr Fordyce waited at Hillside till after Sunday,
and then went to Bath to hear the verdict of the
physician. He returned as much depressed as it
was in his sanguine nature to be, for great delicacy
of the lungs had been detected ; and to prevent
the recent chill from leaving permanent injury,
Ellen must have a winter abroad, and warm sea or
mountain air at once. Whether the disease were
constitutional and would have come on at all events
no one could tell.

Consumption was much less understood half
a century ago ; oliver oil was unknown ; and
stethoscope were new inventions, only used by the
more advanced of the. faculty. The only escape
poor Parson Frank had from accepting the doom
was in disbelieving that a thing like a trumpet

could really reveal the condition of the chest.
Moreover, Mrs. Fordyce had had a brother who had,
under the famous townhouse cure, recovered enough
to return home, and he killed by the upsetting of
a stage coach.

Mrs. Fordyce took her daughter to Lyme, and
waited there till her husband had found a curate
and made all arrangements. It must have been
very inconvenient not to come home ; but, no doubt,
she wanted to prevent any more partings. Then
they went abroad, travelling slowly, and seeing all
the sights that came in their way, to distract Ellen's
thoughts. She was not allowed to hear what ailed
her ; but believed her languor and want of interest
in everything to be the effect of the blow she had
received, struggling to exert herself, and to enter
gratefully into the enjoyments provided for her.
She was not prevented from writing to Emily;
indeed, no one liked to hinder anything she wished,
but they were guide-book letters, describing all she
saw as a kind of duty, but scarcely concealing the
trouble it was to look. Such sentences would slip
out as ' This is a nice quiet place, and I am happy
to say there is nothing that one ought to see.'
Or, ' I sat in the ' cathedral at Lucerne while the
others were going round. The organ was playing,
and it was such rest ! ' Or, again, after a day on
the Ago di Como, 'It was glorious, and if you

and Edward were here, perhaps the beauty would
penetrate my sluggish soul !'

Ellen's sluggish soul !  when we remembered
her keen ecstasy at the Valley of Bocks.

Those letters were our chief interest in an
autumn which seemed dreary to us, in spite of
friendly visitors ; for had not our family hope and
joy been extinguished ? There was no direct communication
with Griffith after his unpleasant reply
to my father's letter ; but Clarence saw the newly
married pair on their return to Lady Peacock's
house in London, and reported that they were very
kind and friendly to him, and gave him more invitations
than he could accept. Being cross-examined
when he came home for Christmas, he declared his
conviction that Lady Peacock had married Griff
entirely from affection, and that he had been  well
flattered into it. They seemed very fond of each
other now, and were launching out into all sorts
of gaieties ; but though he did not tell mv father,
he confided to me that he feared that Griffith had
been disappointed in the amount of fortune at
his wife's disposal.

It was at that Christmas time, one night, having
found an intrusive cat upon my bed, Clarence
carried her out at the back door close to his room,
and came back in haste and rather pale. c It is
quite true about the lady and the light being seen

out of doors he said in an awe-stricken voice, ' I
have just seen her flit from the mullion room to
the ruin.'

We only noted the fact in that ghost-diary of
ours  we told nobody, and looked no more. We
already believed that these appearances on the
lawn must be the cause that every window, upto
the attics on the garden side of the house, were
so heavily shuttered and barred that there was no
opening them without noise. Indeed, those on
the ground floor had in addition bells attached
to them. No doubt the former inhabitants had
done their best to prevent any one from seeing or
inquiring into what was unacknowledged and unaccountable.
It might be only a coincidence, but
we could not help remarking that we had seen and
heard nothing of her during the engagement which
might have united the two families ; though, of
course, it would be ridiculous to suppose her cognisant
of it, like the White Lady of Avenel, dancing
for joy at Mary's marriage with Albert Glen-dining.


The Fordyce had settled at Florence, where
they suffered a great deal more from cold than they
would have done at Hillside ; and there was such
a cessation of Ellen's letters that Emily feared that
Airs. Fordyce had attained her wish and separated
the friends effectually. However, Frank Fordyce

beguiled his enforced leisure with long letters to
my father on home business, Austrian misgovernment,
and the Italian Church and people, full of
shrewd observations and new lights ; and one of
these ended thus, ' My poor lassie has been in bed
for ten days with a severe cold. She begs me to
say that she has begun a letter to Emily, and hopes
soon to finish it. We had thought her gaining
ground, but she is sadly pulled down. Fiat
voluntas!

The letter, which had been begun, never came ;
but, after three long weeks, there was one from
the dear patient herself, mentioning her illness, and
declaring that it was so comfortable to be allowed
to be tired, and to go nowhere and see nothing
except the fragment of beautiful blue sky, and
the corner of a campanile, and the flowers Anne
brought in daily.

As soon as she could be moved, they took her
to Genoa, where she revived enough to believe that
she should be well if she were at home again, and
to win from her parents a promise to take her to
Hillside as soon as the spring winds were over.
So anxious was she that, as soon as there was any
safety in travelling, the party began moving northwards,
going by sea to Marseilles to avoid the
Cornice, so early in the year. There were many
fluctuations, and it was only her earnest yearning

for home and strong resolution that could have
made her parents persevere ; but at last they were
at Hillside, just after Whitsuntide, in the last
week of May.

Frank Fordyce walked over to see us on the
very evening after their arrival. He was much
altered, his kindly handsome face looked almost as
if he had gone through an illness ; and, indeed,
apart from all his anxiety and sorrow, he had pined
in foreign parts for his human flock, as well as
his bullocks and his turnips. He had also read,
thought, and observed a great deal, and had left
his long boyhood behind him, during a space for
study and meditation such as he had never had
before.

He was quite hopeless of his daughter's recovery,
and made no secret of it. In passing through
London the best advice had been taken, but only to
obtain the verdict that the case was beyond all skill,
and that it was only a matter of weeks, when all
that could be done was to give as much gratification
as possible. The one thing that Ellen did care about
was to be at home  to have Emily with her, and
once more see her school children, her church, and
her garden. Tired as she was she had sprung up
in the carriage at the first glimpse of Hillside spire,
and had leant forward at the window, nodding and
smiling her greetings to all the villagers.

She had been taken at once to her room and her
bed, but her father had promised to beg Emily to
come up by noon on the morrow. Then he sat
talking of local matters, not able to help showing
what infinite relief it was to him to be at home, and
what music to his ears was the Somersetshire dialect
and deep English voice ' after all those thin, shrill,
screeching foreigners.'

Poor Emily ! It was in mingled grief and gladness
that she set off the next day, with the trepidation
of one to whom sickness and decay were hitherto
unknown. When she returned, it was in a different
mood, unable to believe the doctors could be right,
and in the delight of having her own bright, sweet
Ellen back again, all herself. They had talked, but
more of home and village than of foreign experiences ;
and though Ellen did not herself assist, she had much
enjoyed watching the unpacking of the numerous
gifts which had cost a perfect fortune at the Custom
House. No one seemed forgotten  villagers, children,
servants, friends. Some of these tokens are before
me still. The Florentine mosaic paper-weight she
brought me presses this very sheet ; the antique
lamp she gave my father is on the mantelpiece ;
Clarence's engraving of Eaffaelle's St. Michael hangs
opposite to me on the wall. Most precious in our
eyes was the collection of plants, dried and labelled
by herself, which she brought to Emily and me 

poor mummies now, but redolent of undying affection.
Her desire was to bestow all her keepsakes
with her own hands, and in most cases she actually
did so  a few daily, as her strength served her.
The little figures in costume, coloured prints, Swiss
carvings, French knickknacks, are preserved in many
a Hillside cottage as treasured relics of ' our young
lady.' Many years later, Martyn recognised a Hillside
native in a back street in London by a little
purple-blue picture of Vesuvius, and thereby reached
the soft spot in a nearly dried-up heart.

So bright and playful was the dear girl over all
her old familiar interests that we inexperienced beings
believed not only that the wound to her affections
was healed, but that she either did not know or did
not realise the sentence that had been pronounced
on her ; but when this was repeated to her mother,
it was met by a sad smile and the reply that we
only saw her in her best hours. Still, through the
summer, it was impossible to us to accept the truth ;
she looked so lovely, was so cheerful, and took such
delight in all that was about her.

With the first cold, however, she seemed to
shrivel up, and the bad nights extended into the
days. Emily ascribed the change to the lack of
going out into the air, and always found reasons for
the increased languor and weakness ; till at last there
came a day when my poor little sister seemed as if
VOL. II. H

the truth had broken upon her for the first time,
when Ellen talked plainly to her of their parting,
and had asked us both, ' her dear brother and sister,'
to be with her at her Communion on All Saints'
Day.

She had written a little letter to Clarence, begging
his forgiveness for having cut him, and treated him
with the scorn which, I believe, was the chief fault
that weighed upon her conscience ; and, hearing
my father's voice in the house, she sent a message
to beg him to come and see her in her mother's
dressing-room  that very window where I had first
heard her voice, refusing to come down to 'those
Winslowss.' She had sent for him to entreat him to
forgive Griffith and recall the pair to Chantry House.
Not now,' she said, ' but when I am gone.'

My father could deny her nothing, though he
showed that the sight of her made the entreaty all
the harder to him ; and she pleaded, ' But you know
this was not his doing. I never was strong, and it
had begun before. Only think how sad it would
have been for him.'

My father would have promised anything with
that wasted hand on his, those fervent eyes gazing
on him, and he told her he would have given his
pardon long ago, if it had been sought, as it never
had been.

1 Ah ! perhaps he did not dare !' she said. c Won't

you write when all this is over, and then you will
be one family again as you used to be V

He promised, though he scarcely knew where
Griffith was. Clarence, however, did. He had
answered Ellen's letter, and it had made him ask
for a few days' leave of absence. So he came down
on the Saturday, and was allowed a quarter of an
hour beside Ellen's sofa in the Sunday evening
twilight. He brought away the calm, rapt expression
I had sometimes seen on his face at church, and
Ellen made a special entreaty that he might share
the morrow's feast.

There are some things that cannot be written of,
and that was one. Still we had not thought the
end near at hand, though on Tuesday morning a
message was sent that Ellen was suffering and
exhausted, and could not see Emily. It was a wild,
stormy day, with fierce showers of sleet, and we
clung to the hope that consideration for my sister
had prompted the message. In the afternoon
Clarence battled with a severe gale, made his way
to Hillside, and heard that the weather affected the
patient, and that there was much bodily distress.
For one moment he saw her father, who said in
broken accents that we could only pray that the
spirit might be freed without much more suffering,
though no doubt it is all right.'

Before daylight, before any one in the house was

up, Clarence was mounting the hill in the gusts that
had done their work on the trees and were subsiding
with the darkness. And just as he was beginning
the descent, as the sun tipped the Hillside steeple
with light, he heard the knell, and counted the
twenty-one for the years of our Ellen  for ours she
will always be.

Somehow,' he told me, ' I could not help taking
off my hat and giving thanks for her, and then all
the drops on all the boughs began sparkling, and
there was a hush on all around as if she were passing
among the angels, and a thrush broke out into
a regular song of jubilee !'

NOT IN VAIN.

Then cheerly to your work again,
With hearts new braced and set
To run untired love's blessed race,
As meet for those who face to face
Over the grave their Lord have met.

Keble.

That dying request could not but be held sacred,
and overtures were made to Griffith, who returned
an odd sort of answer, friendly and affectionate, but
rather as if my father were the offending party in
need of forgiveness. He and his wife were obliged
for the invitation, but could not accept it, as they
had taken a house near Melton-Mowbray for the
hunting season, and were entertaining friends.

In some ways it was disappointing, in others it
was a relief, not to have the restraint of Lady
Peacock's presence during the last days we were to
have with the Fordyce. For a fresh loss came upon
us. Beachharbour was a fishing-village on the
north-western coast, which, within the previous
decade, had sprung into importance, on the one hand

as a fashionable resort, on the other as a minor port
for colliers. The living was wretchedly poor, and
had been held for many years by one of the old
inferior stamp of clergy, scarcely superior in habits
or breeding to the farmers, and only outliving the
scandals of his youth to fall into a state of indolent
carelessness. It was in the gift of a child, for whom
Sir Horace Lester was trustee, and that gentleman
had written, about a fortnight before Ellen's death,
to consult Mr. Fordyce on its disposal, declaring the
great difficulties and deficiencies of the place, which
made it impossible to offer it to any one without
considerable private means, and also able to attract
and improve the utterly demoralised population.
He ended, almost in joke, by saying, ' In fact, I
know no one who could cope with the situation but
yourself; I wish you could find me your own
counterpart, or come yourself in earnest. It is just
the air that suits my sister  bracing sea-breezes ; the
parsonage, though a wretched place, is well situated,
and she would be all the stronger ; but in poor
Ellen's state there is no use in talking of it, and
besides I know you are wedded to your fertile fields
and Somersetshire clowns.'

That letter (afterwards shown to us) had worked
on Mr. Fordyce's mind during those mournful days.
He was still young enough to leave behind him
Parson Frank and the ' squadron ' habits of Hillside

in which he had grown up ; and the higher and more
spiritual side of his nature had been fostered by the
impressions of the last year. He was conscious, ashe
said, that his talk had been overmuch of bullocks,
and that his farm had engrossed him more than he
wished should happen again, though a change would
be tearing himself up by the roots ; and as to his
own people at Hillside, the curate, an active young
man, had well supplied his place, and, in his truly
humble opinion, though by no means in theirs,
introduced several improvements even in that model
parish.

What had moved him most, however, was a conversation
he had had with Ellen, with whom during
this last year he had often held deep and serious
counsel, with a growing reverence on his side. He
had read her uncle's letter to her, and to his great
surprise found that she looked on it as a call.
Devotedly fond as she herself was of Hillside, she
could see that her father's abilities were wasted on
so small a field, in a manner scarcely good for himself,
and she had been struck with the greater force
of his sermons when preaching to educated congregations
abroad. If no one else could or would take
efficient charge of these Beachharbour souls, she
could see that it would weigh on his conscience to
take comparative ease in his own beloved meadows,
among a flock almost his vassals. Moreover, she

relieved his mind about her mother. She had discovered,
what the good wife kept out of sight, that
the north-country woman never could entirely have
affinities with the south, and she had come to the
conclusion that Mrs. Fordyce's spirits would be
heavily tried by settling down at Hillside in the
altered state of things.

After this talk, Mr. Fordyce had suggested a
possible incumbent to his brother-in-law, but left
the matter open ; and when Sir Horace came down
to the funeral, it was more thoroughly discussed ;
and, as soon as Mrs. Fordyce saw that departure
would not break her husband's heart, she made no
secret of the way that both her opinion and her
inclinations lay. She told my mother that she had
always believed her own ill-health was caused by
the southern climate, and that she hoped that Anne
would grow up stronger than her sister in the
northern breezes.

Poor little Anne ! Of all the family, to her the
change was the greatest grief. The tour on the
Continent had been a dull affair to her ; she was of
the age to weary of long confinement in the carriage
and in strange hotels, and too young to appreciate
1 grown-up ' sights. Picture-galleries and cathedrals
were only a drag to her, and if the experiences that
were put into Ptosella's mouth for the benefit of her
untravelled sisters could have been written down,

they would have been as unconventional as Mark
Twain's adventures. Eosella went through the
whole tour, and left a leg behind in the hinge of a
door, but in compensation brought home a Paris
bonnet and mantle. She seemed to have been her
young mistress's chief comfort, next to an occasional
game of play with her father, or a walk, looking
in at the shop windows and watching marionettes,
or, still better, the wonderful sports of brown-legged
street children, without trying to make her
speak French or Italian  in her eyes one of the
inflictions of the journey, in those of her elders the
one benefit she might gain. She had missed the
petting to which she had been accustomed from her
grandfather and from all of us ; and she had absolutely
counted the days till she could get home
again, and had fallen into dire disgrace for fits of crying
when Ellen's weakness caused delays. Martyn's
holidays had been a time of rapture to her, for there
was no one to attend much to her at home, and she
was too young to enter into the weight of anxiety ;
so the two had run as wild together as a gracious
well-trained damsel of ten and a fourteen-year-old
boy with tender chivalry awake in him could well
do. To be out of the way was all that was asked
of her for the time, and all old delights, such as the
robbers' cave, were renewed with fresh zest.

It was the sweetest and the last.'

And though Martyn was gone back to school, the
child felt the wrench from home most severely.
As she told me on one of those sorrowful days, ' She
did think she had come back to live at dear, dear
little Hillside all the days of her life.' Poor child,
we became convinced that this vehement attachment
to Griffith's brothers was one factor in Mrs. Fordyce's
desire to make a change that should break off these
habits of intimacy and dependence.

Pluralities had not become illegal, and Frank
Fordyce, being still the chief landholder in Hillside,
and wishing to keep up his connection with his
people, did not resign the rectory, though he put
the curate into the house, and let the farm. Once
or twice a year he came to fulfil some of a landlord's
duties, and was as genial and affectionate as ever,
bat more and more absorbed in the needs of Beach-harbour,
and unconsciously showing his own growth
in devotion and activity; while he brought his
splendid health and vigour, his talent, his wealth,
and, above all, Ms winning charm of manner and
address, to that magnificent work at Beachharbour,
well known to all of you ; though, perhaps, you never
guessed that the foundation of all those churches
and their grand dependent works of piety, mercy,
and beneficence was laid in one young girl's grave.
I never heard of a fresh achievement there without
remembering how the funeral psalm ends with 

Prosper Thou the work of our hands upon us,
prosper Thou our handiwork. '

And Emily ? Her drooping after the loss of her
friend was sad, but it would have been sadder but
for the spirit Ellen had infused. We found the
herbs to heal our woe round our pathway, though
the first joyousness of life had departed. The reports
Mr. Henderson and the Hillside curate brought from
Oxford were great excitements to us, and we thought
and puzzled over church doctrine, and tried to impart
it to our scholars. We, I say, for Henderson had
made me take a lads' class, which has been the chief
interest of my life. Even the roughest were good to
their helpless teacher, and some men, as gray-headed
as myself, still come every Sunday to read with Mr.
Edward, and are among the most faithful friends of
my life.

griff's died.

Shall such mean little creatures pretend to the fashion ?
Cousin Turkey Cock, well may you be in a passion.'

The Peacock at Home.

It was not till the second Christmas after dear Ellen
Fordyce's death that my eldest brother brought his
wife and child to Chantry House, after an urgent
letter to Lady Peacock from my mother, who yearned
for a sight of Griffith's boy.

I do not wish to dwell on that visit. Selina, or
Griff's bird, as Martyn chose to term her, was certainly
handsome and stylish ; but her complexion
had lost freshness and delicacy, and the ladies said
her colour was rouge, and her fine figure due to
other female mysteries. She meant to be very
gracious, and patronised everybody, especially Emily,
who, she said, would be quite striking if not sacrificed
by her dress, and whom she much wished to take
to London, engaging to provide her with a husband
before the season was over, not for a moment believing
my mother's assurance that it would be a

trial to us all whenever we bad to resign our Emily.
Nay, she tried to condole with the poor rnoped family
slave, and was received with such hot indignation
as made her laugh, for, to do her justice, she was
good-natured and easy-tempered. However, I saw
less of her than did the others, for I believe she
thought the sight of me made her ill. ( Griff, poor
old fellow, was heartily glad to be with us again,
but quite under her dominion. He had lost his
glow of youth and grace of figure, his complexion
had reddened, and no one would have guessed him
only a year older than Clarence, whose shoulders
did indeed reveal something of the desk, but whose
features, though pale, were still fair and youthful.
The boy was another Clarence, not so much in
compliment to his godfather as because it was
the most elegant name in the family, and favoured
an interesting belief, current among his mother's
friends, that the king had actually stood sponsor to
the uncle. Poor little man, his grandmother shut
herself into the workroom and cried, after her first
sight of him. He was a wretched, pinched morsel
of humanity, though mamma and Emily detected
wonderful resemblances ; I never saw them, but then
he inherited his mother's repulsion towards me, and
roared doubly at the sight of me. My mother held
that he was the victim of Selina's dissipations and
mismanagement of herself and him, and gave many

matronly groans at his treatment by the smart,
flighty nurse, who waged one continual warfare with
the household.

Accustomed to absolute supremacy in domestic
matters, it was very hard for my mother to have her
counsels and experience set at naught, and, if she
appealed to Griff, to find her notions treated with
the polite deference he might have shown to a
cottage dame.

A course of dinner-parties could not hinder her
ladyship from finding Chantry House insufferably
dull, ' always like Sunday ;' and, when she found
that we were given to Saints' Day services, her pity
and astonishment knew no bounds. ' It was all
very well for a poor object like Edward she held,
but as to Mr. Winslow and Clarence, did they go
for the sake of example ? Though, to be sure, Clarence
might be a Papist any day.'

Popery, instead of Methodism, was just beginning
to be the bugbear set up for those whom the world
held to be ultra-religious, and my mother was sofar
disturbed at our interest in what was termed
Oxford theology that the warning would have
alarmed her if it had come from any other quarter.
However, Lady Peacock was rather fond of Clarence,
and entertained him with schemes for improving
Chantry House when it should have descended to
Griffith. The mullion rooms were her special aversion,

and were all to be swept away, together with
the vaulting and the ruin  ' enough to give one
the blues, if there were nothing else she averred.

We really felt it to the credit of our country
that Sir George Eastwood sent an invitation to an
early dance to please his young daughters ; and for
this our visitors prolonged their stay. My mother
made Clarence go, that she might have some one to
take care of her and Emily, since Griff was sure to
be absorbed by his lady. Emily had not been to
a ball since those gay days in London with Ellen.
She shrank back from the contrast, and would have
begged off; but she was told that she must submit;
and though she said she felt immeasurably older
than at that happy time, I believe she was not above
being pleased with the pale pink satin dress and
wreath of white jessamine, which my father presented
to her, and in which, according to Martyn,
she beat ' Griff's bird all to shivers.'

Clarence had grown much less bashful and
embarrassed since the Tooke affair had given him a
kind of position and a sense of not being a general
disgrace. He really was younger in some ways
at five-and-twenty than at eighteen; he enjoyed
dancing, and especially enjoyed the compliments
upon our sister, whom in our usual fashion we
viewed as the belle of the ball. He was standing
by my fire, telling me the various humours of the

night, when a succession of shrieks ran through the
house. He dashed away to see what was the matter,
and returned, in a few seconds, saying that Selina
had seen some one in the garden, and neither she
nor mamma would be satisfied without examination
' though, of course, I know what it must be,' he
added, as he drew on his coat.

Bill, are you coming V said Griff at the door.
You needn't, if you don't like it. I bet it is your
old friend.'

 I'm coming ! I'm coming ! I'm sure it is,' shouted
Martyn from behind, with the inconsistent addition,
1 I've got my gun.'

Enough to dispose of any amount of robbers or
phantoms either,' observed Griff, as they went forth
by the back door, reinforced by Amos Bell with a
lantern in one hand and a poker in the other.

My father was fortunately still asleep, and my
mother came down to see whether I was frightened.
She said she had no patience with Selina, and had
left her to Emily and her maid ; but, before many
words had been spoken, they all came creeping
down after her, feeling safety in numbers, or perhaps
in her entire fearlessness. The report of a gun gave
us all a shock, and elicited another scream or two.
My mother, hoping that no one was hurt, hastened
into the hall, but only to meet Griff, hurrying in
laughing to reassure us with the tidings that it was

only Martyn, who had shot the old sun-dial by way
of a robber ; and he was presently followed by the
others, Martyn rather crestfallen, but arguing withall
his might that the sun-dial was exactly like a
man ; and my mother hurried every one off upstairs
without further discussion.

Clarence was rather white, and when Martyn
demanded, ' Do you really think it was the ghost ?
Fancy her selection of the bird ! ' he gravely
answered, ' Martyn, boy, if it were, it is not a
thing to speak of in that tone. You had better goto
bed.'

Martyn went off, somewhat awed. Clarence was
cold and shivering, and stood warming himself. He
was going to wind up his watch, but his hand
shook, and I did it for him, noting the hour  twenty
minutes past one.

It appeared that Selina, on going upstairs, recollected
that she had left her purse in Griff's sitting-room
before going to dress, and had gone in quest
of it. She heard strange shouts and screams outside,
and, going to one of the old windows, where the
shutters were less unmanageable than elsewhere, she
beheld a woman rushing towards the house pursued
by at least a couple of men. Filled with terror she
had called out, and nearly fainted in Griff's arms.

1 It agrees with all we have heard before,' said
Clarence, ' the very day and hour !'

VOL. II. I

As Martyn said, the person is strange.'
Villagers, less concerned, have seen the like,' he
said ; ' and, indeed, all unconsciously poor Selina has
cut away the hope of redress,' he sighed. ' Poor,
restless spirit ! would that I could do anything
for her.'

Let me ask, do you ever see her now ?'
N  no, I suppose not ; but whenever I am
anxious or worried, the trouble takes her form in
my dreams.'
Lady Peacock had soon extracted the ghost story
from her husband, and, though she professed to be
above the vulgar folly of belief in it, her nerves
were so upset, she said, that nothing would have
induced her to sleep another night in the house.
The rational theory on this occasion was that one
of the maids must have stolen out to join in the
Christmas entertainment at the Winslow Arms, and
been pursued home by some tipsy revellers ; but this
explanation was not productive of goodwill between
the mother and daughter-in-law, since mamma had
from the first so entirely suspected Selina's smart
nurse as actually to have gone straight to the
nursery on the plea of seeing whether the baby had
been frightened. The woman was found asleep 
apparently so  said my mother, but all her clothes
were in an untidy heap on the floor, which to my
mother was proof conclusive that she had slipped

into the house in the confusion, and settled herself
there. Had not my mother with her own eyes
watched from the window her flirtations with the
gardener, and was more evidence requisite to convict
her ? Mamma entertained the hope that her proposal
would be adopted of herself taking charge of her
grandson, and fattening his poor little cheeks on
our cows' milk, while the rest of the party continued
their round of visits.

Lady Peacock, however, treated it as a personal
imputation that her nurse should be accused instead
of any servant of Mrs. Winslow's own, though, as
Griff observed, not only character, but years and
features might alike acquit them of any such doings ;
but even he could not laugh long, for it was no
small vexation to him that such offence should have
arisen between his mother and wife. Of course
there was no open quarrel  my mother had far too
much dignity to allow it to come to that  but each
said in private bitter things of the other, and my
lady's manner of declining to leave her baby at
Chantry House was almost offensive.

Poor Griffith, who had been growing more like
himself every day, tried in vain to smooth matters.
and would have been very glad to leave his child
to my mother's management, though, of course, he
acquitted the nurse of the midnight adventure. He
privately owned to us that he had no opinion of

the woman, but he defended her to my mother, in
whose eyes this was tantamount to accusing her
own respectable maids, since it was incredible that
any rational person could accept the phantom theory.

Gladly would he have been on better terms, for
he had had to confess that his wife's fortune had
turned out to be much less than common report
had stated, or than her style of living justified, and
that his marriage had involved him in a sea of
difficulties, so that he had to beg for a larger
allowance, and for assistance in paying off debts.

The surrender of the London house and of some
of the chief expenses were made conditions of such
favours, and Griffith had assented gratefully when
alone with his father ; but after an interview with
his wife, demonstrations were made that it was
highly economical to have a house in town, and
horses, carriages, and servants and that any
change would be highly derogatory to the heir of
Earlscombe and the sacred wishes of the late Sir
Henry Peacock.

In fact, it was impressed on us that we were
mere homely, countrified beings, who could not presume
to dictate to her ladyship, but who had ill
requited her condescension in deigning to beam
upon us.

SLACK WATER.

1 cinna look, ye prideful queen, on a' neatly your ken,
For he wha seems the farthest but aft wins the farthest ben,
And whiles the double of the schule tak's lead of a' the rest :
The birdie sure to sing is the gorbal of the nest.

The could, grey, misty morn aft brings a sunny summer day ;
The tree wha's buds are latest is longest to decay ;
The heart sir tried wi' sorrow still endures the sternest test :
The birdie sure to sing is the gorbal of the nest.

The wee wee stern that glints in heaven may be a loin' sun,
Though like a speck of light it seem amid the welkin dun ;
The humblest lodger on the field may win a warrior's crest :
The birdie sure to sing is the gorbal of the nest. '

Scotch Newspaper. r.

The wickedness of the nurse was confirmed in my
mother's eyes when the doom on the first-born of
the Winslowss was fulfilled, and the poor little baby,
Clarence, succumbed to a cold on the chest caught
while his nurse was gossiping with a guardsman.

He was buried in London. ' It was better for
Selina to get those things over as quickly as possible,'
said Griff; but Clarence saw that he suffered much

more than his wife would let him show to her. ' It
is so bad for him to dwell on it,' she said. 'You
see, I never let myself give way.'

And she was soon going out, nearly as usual, till
their one other infant came to open its eyes only fora
few hours on this troublesome world, and owe its
baptism to Clarence's exertions. My mother, who
was in London just after, attending on the good old
Admiral's last illness, was greatly grieved and disgusted
with all she heard and saw of the young-pair,
and that was not much. She felt their disregard
of her uncle as heartless, or rather as insulting,
on Selina's part, and weak on Griff's ; and on
all sides she heard of their reckless extravagance,
which made her forebode the worst.

All these disappointments much diminished my
father's pleasure and interest in his inheritance. He-had
little heart to build and improve, when his
eldest son's wife made no secret of her hatred to the
place, or to begin undertakings only to be neglected
by those who came after ; and thus several favourite
schemes were dropped, or prevented by Griffith's
applications for advances.

At last there was a crisis. At the end of the
second season after their visit to us, Clarence sent a
hasty note, begging my father to join him in averting
an execution in Griffith's house. I cannot record
the particulars, for just at that time I had a

long low fever, and did not touch my diary for many
weeks ; nor indeed did I know much about the circumstances,
since my good nurses withheld as much
as possible, and would not let me talk about what
they believed to make me worse. Nor can I find
any letters about it. I believe they were all made
away with long ago, and thus I only know that
my father hurried up to town, remained for a fortnight,
and came back looking ten years older. The
house in London had been given up, and he had
offered a vacant one of our own, near home, to Griff
to retrench in, but Selina would not hear of it, insisting
on going abroad.

This was a great grief to him and to us all.
There was only one side of our lives that was not
saddened. Our old incumbent had died about six
months after the Fordyce had gone, and Mr.
Henderson had gladly accepted the living where the
parsonage had been built. The lady to whom he
had been so long engaged was a great acquisition.
Her home had been at Oxford ; and she was as
thoroughly imbued with the spirit that there prevailed
as was the Hillside curate. She talked to us
of Battledore, and of the sermons there and at St.
Mary's, and Emily and I shared to the full her hero-worship.
It was the nearest compensation my sister
had had for the loss of Ellen, with this difference,
that Mrs. Henderson was older, had read more, and

had conversed thoughtfully with some of the leading-spirits
in religious thought, so that she opened a new
world to us.

People would hardly believe in our eagerness and
enthusiasm over the revelations of church doctrine ;
how we debated, consulted our books, and corresponded
with Clarence over what now seems so
trite ; how we viewed the British Critic and Tracts
for the Times as our oracles, and worried the poor
Wattleseaea bookseller to get them for us at the first
possible moment.

Church restoration was setting in. Henderson
had always objected to christening from a slop-basin
on the altar, and had routed out a dilapidated font ;
and now one, which was termed by the country
paper chaste and elegant, was by united efforts, in
which Clarence had the lion's share, presented intime
for the christening of the first child at the
Parsonage. It is that which was sent off to the
Mission Chapel as a blot on the rest of Earlscombe
Church. Yet what an achievement it was deemed
at the time !

The same may be said of most of our doings at
that era. We effected them gradually, and have
ever since been undoing them, as our architectural
and ecclesiastical perceptions have advanced. I
wonder how the next generation will deal with our
alabaster reredos and our stained windows, with

which we are all as well pleased as we were fifty
years ago with the plain red cross with a target-like
arrangement above and below it in the east window,
or as poor Margaret may have been with her livery
altar-cloth. Indeed, it seems to me that we got
more delight out of our very imperfect work, designed
by ourselves and sent to Clarence to be executed by
men in back streets in London, costing an immensity
of trouble, than can be had now by simply
choosing: out of a book of figures of cut and dried
articles.

What an enthusiastic description Clarence sent
of the illuminated commandments in the new
Church of St. Katharine in the Regent's Park !
How Emily and I gloated over the imitation of them
when we replaced the hideous old tables, and
how exquisite we thought the initial I, which
irreverent youngsters have likened, with some justice.
to an enormous overfed caterpillar, enwreathed with
red and green cabbage leaves !

My mother was startled at these innovations ; but
my father, who had kept abreast with the thought of
the day, owned to the doctrines as chiming in with
his unbroken belief, and transferred to the improvements
in the church the interest which he had lost
in the estate. The farmers had given up their distrust
of him, and accepted him loyally as friend and
landlord, submitting to the reseating of the church,

and only growling moderately at decorations that cost
them nothing. Daily service began as soon as Henderson
was his own master, and was better attended
than it is now ; for the old people to whom it was
a novelty took up the habit more freely than their
successors, to whom the bell has been familiar through
their days of toil. We were too far off to be constant
attendants ; but evensong made an object for
our airings, and my father's head, now quite white,
was often seen there. He felt it a great relief amid
the cares of his later years.

Perhaps it was with a view to him that Mr.
Castleford arranged that Clarence should become
manager for the firm at Bristol, with a good salary.
The Eobsons would not take a fresh lodger  they
were getting too old for fresh beginnings ; but they
kept their rooms ready for him, whenever he had to
be in town, and Gooch found him a trustworthy
widow as housekeeper. He took a little cottage at
Clifton, availing himself of the coach to spend his
Sundays with us ; and it was an acknowledged joy
to every one that I should drive to meet him every
Saturday afternoon at the Carpenter's Arms, and
bring him home to be my father's aid in all Ins
business, and a most valuable help in Sunday parish
work, in which he had an amount of experience which
astonished us.

What would have become of the singing without

him ? The first hint against the remarkable anthems
had long ago alienated our tuneful choir placed on
high, and they had deserted en masse. Then Emily
and the schoolmistress had toiled at the school children,
whose thin little pipes and provincialisms were
a painful infliction, till Mrs. Henderson, backed by
Clarence, worked up a few promising men's voices
to support them. We thought everything but the
New and Old Versions smacked of dissent, except
the hymns at the end of the Prayer-book, though
we did not go as far as Chapman, who told Emily
he understood as how all the tunes was tried over
in Doctor's Commons afore they were sent out,
and it was not ' liable ' to change them. One of
Clarence's amusements in his lonely life had been
the acquisition of a knowledge of music, and he
had a really good voice ; while his adherence to
our choir encouraged other young men of the
farmer and artisan class to join us. Choir, however,
did not mean surplices and cassocks, but a
collection of our best voices, male and female, in
the gallery.

Martyn began to be a great help when at home,
never having wavered in his purpose of becoming
a clergyman. On going to Oxford, he became
imbued with the influences that made Alma Mater
the focus of the religious life and progress of that
generation which is now the elder one. There

might in some be unreality, in others extravagance,
in others mere imitation ; but there was a truly
great work on the minds of the young men of
that era  a work which has stood the test of time,
made saints and martyrs, and sown the seed whereof
we have witnessed a goodly growth, in spite of
cruel shocks and disappointments, fightings within
and fears without, slanders and follies to provoke
them, such as we can now afford to laugh over.
With Martyn, rubrical or extra-rubrical observances
were the outlet of the exuberance of youth, as
chivalry and romance had been to us ; and on
Frank Fordyce's visits, it was delightful to find
that he too was in the full swing of these ideas
and habits, partly from his own convictions, partly
from his parish needs, and partly carried along by
curates fresh from Oxford.

In the first of his summer vacations Martyn
joined a reading party, with a tutor of the same
calibre, and assured them that if they took up
their quarters in a farmhouse not many miles by
the map from Beachharbour, they would have
access to unlimited services, with the extraordinary
luxury of a surpliced choir, and intercourse with
congenial spirits, which to him meant the Fordyce.
On arriving, however, the bay proved to be so
rocky and dangerous that there was no boating
across it, as he had confidently expected. The

farm depended on a market town in the opposite
direction, and though the lights of Beachharbour
could be seen at night, there was no way thither
except by a six-miles walk along a cliff path, with a
considerable detour in order to reach a bridge and cross
the rapid river which was an element of danger in
the bay, on the north side of the promontory which
sheltered the harbour to the south.

So when Martyn started as pioneer on the
morning before the others arrived, he descended
into Beachharbour later than he intended, but
still he was in time to meet Anne Fordyce, a tall,
bright-faced girl of fourteen, taking her after-lessons
turn on the parade with a governess, who looked
amazed as the two met, holding out both hands to
one another, with eager joy and welcome.

It was not the same when Anne flew into the
Vicarage with the rapturous announcement, ' Here's
Martyn ! ' The vicar was gone to a clerical meeting,
and Mrs. Fordyce said nothing about staying
to see him. The luncheon was a necessity, but
with quiet courtesy Martyn was made to understand
that he was regarded as practically out of
reach, and ' Oh, mamma, he could come and sleep,'
was nipped in the utterance by ' Martyn is busy
with his studies ; we must not disturb him.' This
was a sufficient intimation that Mrs. Fordyce did
not intend to have the pupils dropping in on her

continually, and making her house their resort ;
and while Martyn was digesting the rebuff, the
governess carried Anne off to prepare for a music
lesson, and her mother gave no encouragement to
lingering or repeating the visit.

Still Martyn, on his way homewards, based
many hopes on the return of Mr. Fordyce ; but
all that ensued was, three weeks later, a note regretting
the not having been able to call, and
inviting the whole party to a great school-feast on
the anniversary of the dedication of the first of
the numerous new churches of Beachharbour.
There was no want of cordiality on that occasion,
but time was lacking for anything beyond greetings
and fleeting exchanges of words. Parson Frank
tried to talk to Martyn, bemoaned the not seeing
more of him, declared his intentions of coming to
the farm, began an invitation, but was called off a
hundred ways ; and Anne was rushing about withall
the children of the place, gentle and simple, on
her hands. Whenever Martyn tried to help her,
he was called off some other way, and engaged at
last in the hopeless task of teaching cricket where
these fisher boys had never heard of it.

That was all he saw of our old friends, and
he was much hurt by such ingratitude. So were
we all, and though we soon acquitted the head of
the family of more than the forgetfulness of over

occupation, the soreness at his wife's coldness was
not so soon passed over. Yet from her own point
of view, poor woman, she might he excused fora
panic lest her second daughter might go the
way of the first.

OUTWARD BOUND.

As slow our ship her foamy track
Against the wind was cleaving,
Her trembling pennant still looked back

To the dear isle 'twas leaving.
So loath w T e part from all we love,
From all the links that bind us,
So turn our hearts as on we rove
To those we've left behind us. '

T. Moore.

The first time I saw Clarence's menage was in that
same summer of poor Martyn's repulse. My father
had come in for a small property in his original
county of Shropshire, and this led to his setting
forth with my mother to make necessary arrangements,
and then to pay visits to old friends ; leaving
Emily and me to be guests to our brother at Clifton.
We told them it was their harvest honeymoon,
and it was funny to see how they enjoyed the
scheme when they had once made up their minds
to it, and our share in the project was equally
new and charming, for Emily and I, though both
some way on in our twenties, were still in many

OUTWARD BOUND. 129

respects heme children, nor had I ever been out
on a visit on my own account. The yellow
chariot began by conveying Emily and me to our
destination.

Clifton has grown considerably since those days,
and terraces have swallowed up the site of what
the post-office knew as Prospect Cottage, but we
were apt to term the doll's house, for, as Emily
said, our visit there had something the same effect
as a picnic or tea drinking at little Anne's famous
baby house. In like manner, it was tiny, square,
with one sash-window on each side of the door,
but it was nearly covered with creepers, odds and
ends which Clarence brought from home, and induced
to flourish and take root better than their
parent stocks. In his nursery days his precision
had given him the name of ' the old bachelor,' and
he had all a sailor's tidiness. Even his black cat
and brown spaniel each had its peculiar basket
and mat, and had been taught never to transgress
their bounds or interfere with one another ; and
the effect of his parlour, embellished as it was in
our honour, was delightful. The outlook was
across the beautiful ravine, into the wooded slopes
on the further side, and, on the other side, down the
widening cleft to that giddy marvel, the suspension
bridge, with vessels passing under it, and the expanse
beyond.

VOL. II. k

Most entirely we enjoyed ourselves, making
merry over Clarence's housekeeping, employing
ourselves after our wonted semi-student, semi-artist
fashion in the morning ; and, when our host came
home from business, starting on country expeditions,
taking a carriage whenever the distance exceeded
Emily's powers of walking beside my chair ; sketching,
botanising, or investigating church architecture,
our newest hobby. I sketched, and the other two
rambled about, measuring and filling up archaeological
papers, with details of orientation, style, and
all the rest, deploring barbarisms and dilapidation,
making curious and delightful discoveries, pitying
those who thought the Dun Cow's rib and Chatterton's
loft the most interesting features of St. Mary's
Eedcliff, and above all rubbing brasses with heel
ball, and hanging up their grim effigies wherever
there was a vacant space on the walls of our doll's
house.

And though we grumbled when Clarence was
detained at the office later than we expected, this
was qualified by pride at feeling his importance
there as a man in authority. It was, however,
with much dismay and some inhospitality that
we learnt that a young man belonging to the
office  in fact, Mr. Frith's great-nephew  was coming
to sail for Canton in one of the vessels belonging
to the firm, and would have to be 'looked after.'

He could not be asked to sleep at Prospect Cottage,
for Emily had the only spare bedchamber, and
Clarence had squeezed himself into a queer little
dressing closet to give me his room ; but the housekeeper
(a treasure found by Gooch) secured an
apartment in the next house, and we were to act
hosts, much against our will. Clarence had barely
seen the youth, who had been employed in the
office at Liverpool, living with his mother, who
was in ill-health and had died in the last spring.
The only time of seeing him, he had seemed to bea
very shy raw lad ; but, ' poor fellow, we can make
the best of him,' was the sentiment ; ' it is only
for one night.' However, we were dismayed
when, as Emily was in the crisis of washing-in
a sky, it was announced that a gentleman was
asking for Mr. Winslow. Churlishness bade us
despatch him to the office, but humanity prevailed
to invite him previously to share our luncheon.
Yet we doubted whether it had not been a cruel
mercy when he entered, evidently unprepared to
stumble on a young lady and a deformed man,
and stammering piteously as he hoped there was
no mistake  Mr. Winslow  Prospect, etc.

Emily explained, frustrating his desire to flee
at once to the office, and pointing out his lodging,
close at hand, whence he was invited to return ina
few minutes to the meal.

We had time for some amiable exclamations,
'The oaf' 'What a bore!' 'He has spoilt my
sky!' 'I shan't finish this to-day!' 'Shall we
order a carriage and take him to the office; we
can't have him on our hands all the afternoon?'
And we might get the new number of Nicholas
Nickleby!

N.B.  Perhaps it was Oliver Twist or The Old
Curiosity Shop  I am not certain which was the
current excitement just then ; but I am quite sure it
was Mrs. nickleby who first disclosed to us that our
guest had a splendid pair of dark eyes. Hitherto
he had kept them averted in the studious manner
I have often noticed in persons who did not wish
to excite suspicion of staring at my peculiarities ;
but that lady's feelings when her neighbour's legs
came down her chimney were too much for his
self-consciousness, and he gave a glance that disclosed
dark liquid depths, sparkling with mirth.
He was one number in advance of us, and could
enlighten us on the next stage in the coming story ;
and this went far to reconcile us to the invasion,
and to restore him to the proper use of his legs
and arms  and very shapely limbs they were, for
he was a slim, well-made fellow, with a dark gipsy
complexion, and intelligent, honest face, altogether
better than we expected.

Yet we could have groaned when in the evening,

Clarence brought him back with tidings that something
had gone wrong with the ship. If I tried
to explain, I might be twitted with,

The bowsprit got mixed-with the rudder sometimes.'

But of course Clarence knew all about it, and he
thought it unlikely that the vessel would be in sailing
condition for a week at soonest. Great was our
dismay ! Getting through one evening by the help
of walking and then singing was one thing, having
the heart of our visit consumed by an interloper was
another ; though Clarence undertook to take him to
the office and find some occupation for him that
might keep him out of our way. But it was Clarence's
leisure hours that we begrudged ; though
truly no one could be meeker than this unlucky
Lawrence Frith, nor more conscious of being an insufferable
burthen. I even detected a tear in his
eye when Clarence and Emily were singing ' Sweet
Home.'

Do you know,' said Clarence, on the second
evening, when his guest had gone to dress for dinner,
I am very sorry for that poor lad. It is only six
weeks since he lost his mother, and he has not a
soul to care for him, either here or where he is going.
I had fancied the family were under a cloud, but I
find it was only that old Frith quarrelled with the
father for taking Holy Orders instead of going into

our house. Probably there was some imprudence ;
for the poor man died a curate and left no provision
for his family. The only help the old man would
give was to take the boy into the office at Liverpool,
stopping his education just as he was old enough to
care about it. There were a delicate mother and
two sisters then, but they are all gone now ; scarlet
fever carried off the daughters, and Mrs. Frith never
was well again. He seems to have spent his time in
waiting on her when off duty, and to have made no
friends except one or two contemporaries of hers ;
and his only belongings are old Frith and Mrs.
Stevens, who are packing him off to Canton without
caring a rap what becomes of him. I know what
Mrs. Stevens is at; she comes up to town much
oftener now, and has got her husband's nephew into
the office, and is trying to get everything for him ;
and that's the reason she wants to keep up the old
feud, and send this poor Lawrence off to the ends of
the earth.'

Can't you do anything for him ?' asked Emily.
I thought Mr. Frith did attend to you.'

Clarence laughed. ' I know that Mrs. Stevens
hates me like poison ; but that is the only reason I
have for supposing I might have any influence.'

And can't you speak to Mr. Castleford ?'

Set him to interfere about old Frith's relations !
He would know better ! Besides, the fellow is too

old to get into any other line  four-and-twenty he
says, though he does not look it; and he is as
innocent as a baby, indifferent just now to what becomes
of him, or whither he goes ; it is all the same
to him, he says ; there is no one to care for him
anywhere, and I think he is best pleased to go where
it is all new. And there, you see, the poor lad will
be left to drift to destruction  mother's darling that
he has been  just for want of some human being to
care about him, and hinder his getting heartless and
reckless !'

Clarence's voice trembled, and Emily had tears
in her eyes as she asked if absolutely nothing could
be done for him. Clarence meant to write to Mr.
Castleford, who would no doubt beg the chaplain at
the station to show the young man some kindness ;
also, perhaps, to the resident partner, whom Clarence
had looked at once over his desk, but in his rawest
and most depressed days. The only clerk out there,
whom he knew, would, he thought, be no element of
safety, and would not like the youth the better
either for bringing his recommendation or bearing
old Frith' s name.

We were considerably softened towards our guest,
though the next time Emily came on him he was
standing in the hall, transfixed in contemplation of
her greatest achievement in brass-rubbing, a severe
and sable knight with the most curly of nostrils, the

stiffest and straightest of mouths, hair straight on
Ins brows, pointed toes joined together below, and
fingers touching over his breast. There he hung in
triumph just within the front door, fluttering and
swaying a little on his pins whenever a draught
came in ; and there stood Lawrence Frith, freshly
aware of him, and unable to repress the exclamation,
I say ! isn't he a guy ? '

Sir Guy de Warren,' began Emily composedly ;
don't you see his coat of arms ? " cheque argent
and azure'"

Does your brother keep him there to scare away
the tramps ? '

Emily's countenance was a study.

The subject of brasses was unfolded to Lawrence
Frith, and before the end of the week he had spent
an entire day on his hands and knees, scrubbing
away with the waxy black compound at a figure in
the Cathedral  the office-work, as we declared,
which Clarence gave him to do. In fact he became
so thoroughly infected that it was a pity that he
was "oing; where there would be no exercise in
ecclesiology  rather the reverse. Embarrassment
on this side, and hostility on ours, may be said
to have vanished under the influence of Sir Guy
de Warren's austere countenance. The youth
seemed to regard ' Mr. Winslow ' in the light of a
father, and to accept us as kindly beings. He

ceased to contort his limbs in our awful presence,
looked at me like as an ordinary person, and even
ventured on giving me an arm. He listened with
unfeigned pleasure to our music, perilled his neck on
St. Vincent's rocks in search of plants, and by and
by took to hanging back with Emily, while Clarence
walked on with me, to talk to her out of his full
heart about his mother and sisters.

Three weeks elapsed before the Hang-ho was
ready to sail, and by that time Lawrence knew that
there were some who would rejoice in his successor
grieve if things went ill with him. Clarence
and I had promised him long home letters, and impressed
on him that we should welcome his intelligence
of himself. For verily he had made his way
into our hearts, as a thoroughly good-hearted, affectionate
being, yearning for something to cling to ;
intelligent and refined, though his recent cultivation
had been restricted, soundly principled, and trained
in religious feelings and habits, but so utterly inexperienced
that there was no guessing how it might
be with him when cast adrift, with no object save
his own maintenance, and no one to take an interest
in him.

Clarence talked to him paternally, and took him
to second-hand shops to provide a cheap library
of substantial reading, engaging to cater for him
for the future, not omitting Dickens ; and Emily

worked at providing him with the small conveniences
and comforts for the voyage that called for a
woman's hand. He was so grateful that it was like
fitting out a dear friend or younger brother.

I wonder,' said Clarence, as he walked by my
chair on one of the last days, c whether it was altogether
wise to have this young Frith here so much,
though it could hardly have been helped.'

To which I rejoined that it could hardly have
displeased the uncle, and that if it did, the youth's
welfare was worth annoying him for.

I meant something nearer home,' said Clarence,
and proceeded to ask if I did not think Lawrence
Frith a good deal smitten with Emily.

To me it seemed an idea not worth consideration.
Any youth, especially one who had lived so
secluded a life, would naturally be taken by the first
pleasing young woman who came in his way, and
took a kindly interest in him ; but I did not think
Emily very susceptible, being entirely wrapped up
in home and parish matters ; and I reminded
Clarence that she had not been loveless. She
had rejected the Curate of Hillside ; and we all
saw, though she did not, that only her evident
indifference kept Sir George Eastwood's second son
from making further advances.

Clarence was not convinced. He said he had
never seen our sister look at either of these as she

did when Lawrence came into the room ; and there
was no denying that there was a soft and embellishing
light on her whole countenance, and a fresh
sweetness in her voice. But then he seemed such
a boy as to make the notion ridiculous ; and yet,
on reckoning, it proved that their years were equal
All that could be hoped was that the sentiment,
if it existed, would not discover itself before they
parted, so as to open their eyes to the dreariness
of the prospect, and cause our mother to think we
had betrayed our trust in the care of our sister.
As we could do nothing, we were not sorry that
this was the last day. Clarence was to go onboard
with Frith, see him out of the river, and
come back with the pilot ; and we all drove down
to the wharf together ; nobody saying much by the
way, except the few jerky remarks we brothers felt
bound to originate and reply to.

Emily sat very still, her head bent under her
shading bonnet  I think she was trying to keep
back tears for the solitary exile ; and Lawrence,
opposite, was unable to help watching her with
wistful eyes, which would have revealed all, if we
had not guessed it already. It might be presumptuous,
but it made us very sorry for him.

When the moment of parting came, there was
a wringing of hands, and, ' Thank you, thank you,'
in a low, broken, heartfelt voice, and to Emily,

 You have made life a new thing to me. I shall
never forget,' and the showing of a tiny book in
his waistcoat pocket.

When the two had disappeared, Emily, no longer
restraining her tears, told me that she had exchanged
Prayer-books with him, and they were to read the
Psalms at the same time every day. ' I thought
it might be a help to him,' she said simply.

Nor was there any consciousness in her talk as
she related to me what he had told her about his
mother and sisters, and his dreary sense of piteous
loneliness, till we had adopted him as a brother 
in which capacity I trusted that she viewed him.

However, Clarence had been the recipient of
all the poor lad's fervent feelings for Miss Winslow,
how she had been a new revelation to his desolate
spirit, and was to be the guiding star of his life,
etc. etc., all from the bottom of his heart, though
he durst not dream of requital, and was to live,
not on hope, but on memory of the angelic kindness
of these three weeks.

It was impossible not to be touched, though
we strove to be worldly wise old bachelors, and
assured one another that the best and most probable
thing that could happen to Lawrence Frith would
be to have his dream blown away by the Atlantic
breezes, and be left open to the charms of some
Chinese merchant's daughter.

TOO LATE.

Thus Esau-like, our Father's blessing miss,
Then wash with fruitless tears our faded crown.'

Keble.

After such a rebuff as Martyn had experienced
at Beachharbour, he no longer haunted its neighbourhood,
but devoted the convocation of the

o

ensuing year to a walking tour in Germany, with
one or two congenial spirits, who shared his delight
in scenery, pictures, and architecture.

By and by he wrote to Clarence from Baden
Baden 

Whom do you think I should find here but
Griffith and his bird ? I first spotted the old
fellow smoking under a tree in the Grand Plats,
but he looked so seedy and altered altogether that
I was not sure enough of him to speak, especially
as lie showed no signs of knowing me. (He says
it was my whiskers that stumped him.) I made
inquiries and found that they figured as " Sir
Peacock and lady," but they were entered all right

in the book. He is taking the " Kiir"  he looks as
if he wanted it  and she is taking rouge ct noir.
I saw her at the salon, with her neck grown as long
as her namesake's, but not as pretty, claws to match,
thin and painted, as if the ruling passion was consuming
her. Poor old Griff! he was glad enough
to see me, but he is woefully shaky, and nearly
came to tears when he asked after Ted and all at
home. They had an upset of their carriage in
Vienna last winter, and he got some twist, or other
damage, which he thought nothing of, but it has
never righted itself; I am sure he is very ill, and
ought to be looked after. He has had only foreign
doctoring, and you know he never was strong in
languages. I heard of the medico here inquiring
what precise symptom dcr Englander meant by
being " down in sie shout !" Poor Griff is that,
whatever else he is, and Selina does not see it,
nor anything else but her rouge et noir table. I
am afraid he plays too, when he is up to it, but
he can't stand much of the stuffiness of the place,
and he respects my innocence, poor old beggar ; so
he has kept out of it, since we have been here.
He seems glad to have me to look after him, but
afraid to let me stay, for fear of my falling a
victim to the place. I can't well tell him that
there is a perpetual warning to youth in the
persons of himself and his Peacock. His mind

might be vastly relieved if I were out of it, but
scarcely his body ; and I shall not leave him till
I hear from home. Thomson says I am right.
I should like to bring the poor old man home for
advice, especially if my lady could be left behind,
and by all appearances she would not object.
Could not you come, or mamma ? Speak to papa
about it. It is all so disgusting that I really could
not write to him. It is enough to break one's
heart to see Griff when he hears about home,
and Edward, and Emily. I told him how famously
you were getting on, and he said, " It has been all
up, up with him, all down, down with me," and
then he wanted me to fix my day for leaving
Baden, as if it were a sink of infection. I fancy
he thinks me a mere infant still, for he won't heed
a word of advice about taking care of himself,
and will do the most foolish things imaginable
for a man in his state, though I can't make out
what is the matter with him. I tried both French
and Latin with his doctor, equally in vain.'

There was a great consultation over this letter.
Our parents would fain have gone at once to Baden,
but my father was far from well ; in fact, it was
the beginning of the break-up of his constitution.
He had been ageing ever since his disappointment
in Griffith, and though he had so enjoyed his jaunt
with my mother that he had seemed revived for

the time, he had been visibly failing ever since
the winter, and my mother durst not leave him.
Indeed she was only too well aware that her presence
was apt to inspire Selina with the spirit of contradiction,
and that Clarence would have a better
chance alone. He was to go up to London by the
mail train, see Mr. Castleford, and cross to Stench.

A valise from the lumber-room was wanted, and
at bedtime he went in quest of it. He came back
white and shaken ; and I said 

You have not seen her V

Yes, I have.'

It is not her time of year.'

]STo ; I was not even thin king of her. There
was none of the wailing, but when I looked up from
my rummaging, there was her face as if in a window
or mirror on the wall.'

Don't dwell on it ' was all I could entreat, for
the apparition at unusual times had been mentioned
as a note of doom, and not only did it weigh on me,
but it might send Clarence off in a desponding
mood. Tidings were less rapid when telegraphs
were not, and railways incomplete. Clarence did
not reach Baclen till ten days after the despatch of
Martyn's letter, and Griffith's condition had in the
meantime become much more serious. Low fever
had set in, and he was confined to his dreary lodgings,
where Martyn was doing his best for him in

an inexperienced, helpless sort of way, while Lady
Peacock was at the salle, persisting in her belief that
the ailment was a temporary matter. Martyn afterwards
declared that he had never seen anything
more touching than poor Griffs look of intense rest
and relief at Clarence's entrance.

On the way through London, by the assistance
of Mr. Castleford, Clarence had ascertained how to
procure the best medical advice attainable, and he
was linguist enough to be an adequate interpreter.
Alas ! all that was achieved was the discovery that
between difficulties of language, Griff's own indifference,
and his wife's carelessness, the injury had
developed into fatal disease. An operation might
yet save him, if he could rally enough for it,
but the fever was rapidly destroying his remaining
strength. Selina ascribed it to excitement at
meeting Martyn, and indeed he had been subject to
such attacks every autumn. Any way, he had no
spirits nor wish for improvement. If his brothers
told him he was better, he smiled and said it was
like a condemned criminal trying to recover enough
for the gallows. His only desire was to be let alone
and have Clarence with him. He had ceased to be
uneasy as to Martyn's exposure to temptation, but
he said he could hardly bear to watch that bright,
fresh young manhood, and recollect how few years
had passed since he had been such another, nor did

VOL. II. l

he like to have any nurse save Clarence. His wife
at first acquiesced, holding fast to the theory of
the periodical autumnal fever, and then that the
operation would restore him to health ; and as her
presence fretted him, and he received her small
attentions peevishly, she persisted in her usual
habits, and heard with petulance his brothers' assurances
of his being in a critical condition, declaring
that it was always thus with these fevers  he was
always cross and low-spirited, and no one could tell
what she had undergone with him.

Then came days of positive pain, and nights of
delirious, dreary murmuring about home and all of
us, more especially Ellen Fordyce. Clarence had
no time for letters, and Martyn's became a call for
mamma, with the old childish trust in her healing
and comforting powers, declaring that he would
meet her at Cologne, and steer her through the
difficulties of foreign travel.

Hesitation was over now. My father was most
anxious to send her, and she set forth, secure that
she could infuse life, energy, and resolution into her
son, when those two poor boys had failed.

It was not, however, Marty n who met her, but
his friend Thomson, with the tidings that the suffering
had become so severe as to prevent Martyn
from leaving Baden, not only on his brother's
account, but because Lady Peacock had at last taken

alarm, and was so uncontrollable in her distress that
he was needed to keep her out of the sickroom,
where her presence, poor thing, only did mischief.

She evidently had a certain affection for her
husband; and it was the more piteous that in his
present state he only regarded her as the tempter
who had ruined his life  his false Duessa, who had
led him away from Una. On one unhappy evening
he had been almost maddened by her insisting on
arguing with him ; he called her a hag, declared
she had been the death of his children, the death
of that dear one  could she not let him alone now
she had been the death of himself ?

When Martyn took her away, she wept bitterly,
and told enough to make the misery of their life
apparent, when the gaiety was over, and regrets and
recriminations set in.

However, there came a calmer interval, when
the suffering passed off, but in the manner which
made the German doctor intimate that hope was
over. Would life last till his mother came ?

His brothers had striven from the first to awaken
thoughts of higher things, and turn remorse into
repentance ; but every attempt resulted in strange,
sad wanderings about Esau, the birthright, and the
blessing. Indeed, these might not have been entirely
wanderings, for once he said, ' It is better this
way, Bill. You don't know what you wish in trying

to bring me round. Don't be hard on me. She
drove me to it. It is all right now. The Jews
will be disappointed.'

For even at the crisis in London, he had concealed
that he had raised money on post obits, so
that, had he outlived my father, Chantry House
would have been lost. Lady Peacock's fortune had
been undermined when she married him ; extravagance
and gambling had made short work of the
rest.

Why should I speak of such things here, except
to mourn over our much-loved brother, with all his
fine qualities and powers wasted and overthrown ?
He clung to Clarence's affection, and submitted to
prayers and psalms, but without response. He
showed tender recollection of us all, but scarcely
durst think of his father, and hardly appeared to
wish to see his mother. Clarence's object soon
came to be to obtain forgiveness for the wife, since
bitterness against her seemed the great obstacle to
seeking pardon, peace, or hope ; but each attempt
only produced such bitterness against her, and such
regrets and mourning for Ellen, as fearfully shook
the failing frame, while he moaned forth complaints
of the blandishments and raillery with which his
temptress had beguiled him. Clarence tried in vain
to turn away this idea, but nothing had any effect till
he bethought himself of Ellen's message, that she knew

even this fatal act had been prompted by generosity
of spirit, There was truth enough in it to touch
Griff, but only so far as to cry, 'what might I not
have been with her?' Still, there was no real
softening till my mother came. He knew her at
once, and all the old childish relations were renewed
between them. There was little time left now, but
he was wholly hers. Even Clarence was almost set
aside, save where strength was needed, and the mother
seemed to have equal control of spirit and body. It
was she, who, scarcely aware of what had gone before,
caused him to admit Selina.

Tell her not to talk,' he said. ' But we have
each much to forgive one another.'

she came in, awed and silent, and he let her kiss
him, sit near at hand, and wait on my mother,
whose coming had, as it were, insensibly taken the
bitterness away and made him as a little child in
her hands. He could follow prayers in which she
led him, as he could not, or did not seem to do,
with any one else, for he was never conscious of the
presence of the clergyman whom Thomson hunted
up and brought, and who prayed aloud with Martyn
while the physical agony claimed both my mother
and Clarence.

Once Griff looked about him and called out for
our father, then recollecting, muttered, ' Xo  the
birthright gone  no blessing.'

It grieved us much, it grieves me now, that this
was his last distinct utterance. He looked as if the
comforting replies and the appeals to the Source of
all redemption did awaken a response, but he never
spoke articulately again ; and only thirty-six hours
after my mother's arrival, all was over.

Poor Selina went into passions of hysterics and
transports of grief, needing all the firmness of so
resolute a woman as my mother to deal with her.
She was wild in self-accusation, and became so ill
that the care of her was a not unwholesome occupation
for my mother, who was one of those with
whom sorrow has little immediate outlet, and is
therefore the more enduring.

She would not bring our brother's coffin home,
thinking the agitation would be hurtful to my father,
and anxious to get back to him as soon as possible.
So Griff was buried at Baden, and from time to time
some of us have visited his grave. Of course she
proposed Selina's return to Chantry House with her ;
but Mr. Clarkson, the brother, had come out to the
funeral, and took his sister home with him, certainly
much to our relief, though all the sad party at
Baden had drawn much nearer together in these
latter days.

A PURPOSE.

It then draws near the season
Wherein the spirit held his wont to walk.'

Earn h t.

We had really lost our Griffith long before  our
bright, generous, warm-hearted, promising Griff, the
brilliance of our home ; but his actual death made
the first breach in a hitherto unbroken family, and
was a new and strange shock. It made my father
absolutely an old man ; and it also changed Marty n.
His first contact with responsibility, suffering, and
death had demolished the light-hearted boyishness
which had lasted in the youngest of the family
through all his high aspirations. Till his return to
Oxford, his chief solace was in getting some one of
us alone, goings through all the scenes at Baden,
discussing his new impressions of the trials and
perplexities of life, and seeking out passages in the
books that were becoming our oracles. What he
had admired externally before, he was grasping from
within ; nor can I describe what the Lyra Apostolic,

and the two first volumes of Parochial Sermons
preached at Battledore, became to us.

Mr. Clarkson had been rather dry with my
brothers at Baden, evidently considering that poor
Griffith had been as fatal to his sister as we thought
Selina had been to our brother. It was hardly just,
for there had been much more to spoil in him than
in her ; and though she would hardly have trod a
much higher path, there is no saying what he might
have been but for her.

Griffith had said nothing about providing for her,
not having forgiven her till he was past recollecting
the need, but her brother had intimated that something
was due from the family, and Clarence had
assented  not, indeed, as to her deserts, poor woman,
but her claims and her needs  well knowing that
my father would never suffer Griff's widow to be
in want.

He judged rightly. My father was nervously
anxious to arrange for giving her 500 a year, in
the manner most likely to prevent her from making
away with it, and leaving herself destitute. But
there had already been heavy pulls on his funded
property, and ways and means had to be considered,
making Clarence realise that he had become the
heir. Somehow, there still remained, especially with
my mother and himself, a sense of his being a failure,
and an inferior substitute, although my father had

long come to lean upon him, as never had been the
case with our poor Griff.

The first idea of raising the amount required
was by selling an outlying bit of the estate near
the AVattlesea Station, for which an enterprising
builder was making offers, either to purchase or
take on a building lease. My father had received
several letters on the subject, and only hesitated
from a feeling against breaking up the estate, especially
if this were part of the original Chantry House
property, and not a more recent acquisition of the
Winslowss. Moreover, he would do nothing without
Clarence's participation.

The title-deeds were not in the house, for my
father had had too much of the law to meddle more
than he could help with his own affairs, and had
left them in the hands of the family solicitor at
Bristol, where Clarence was to go and look over
them. He rejoiced in the opportunity of being able
to see whether anything would throw light on
the story of the mullion chamber ; and the certainty
that the "Wattleseaea property had never been part of
the old endowment of the Chantry did not seem
nearly so interesting as a packet of yellow letters
tied with faded red tape. Mr. Bvder made no
difficulty in entrusting these to him, and we read
them by our midnight lamp.

Clarence had seen poor Margaret's will, bequeathing

her entire property to her husband's son, Philip
Winslow, and had noted the date, 1705; also the
copy of the decision in the Court of Probate that
there was no sufficient evidence of entail on the
Fordyce family to bar her power of disposing of it.
We eagerly opened the letters, but found them disappointing,
as they were mostly offerings of ' Felicitations
' to Philip Winslow on having established
his ' Just Claim,' and ' refuted the malicious Accusations
of Calumny.' They only served to prove the
fact that he had been accused of something, and
likewise that he had powerful friends, and was
thought worth being treated with adulation, according
to the fashion of his day. Perhaps it was
hardly to be expected that he should have preserved
evidence against himself, but it was baffling
to sift so little out of such a mass of correspondence.
If we could have had access to the Fordyce papers,
no doubt they would have given the other phase
of the transaction, but they were unattainable. The
only public record that Clarence could discover
was much abbreviated, and though there was some
allusion to intimidation, the decision seemed to have
been fixed by the non-existence of any entail.

Christmas was drawing on, and gathering together
what was left of us. Though Griffith had
spent only one Christmas at home in nine years,
it was wonderful how few we seemed, even when

Martyn returned. My father liked to have us
about him, and even spoke of Clarence's giving up
his post as manager at Bristol, and living entirely
at home to attend to the estate ; but my mother
did not encourage the idea. She could not quite
bear to accept any one in Griff's place, and rightly
thought there was not occupation enough to justify
bringing Clarence home. I was competent to assist
my father through all the landlord's business that
came to him within doors, and Emily had ridden
and walked about enough with him to be an efficient
inspector of crops and repairs, besides that Clarence
himself was within reach.

1 Indeed,' he said to me, ' I cannot loose my hold
on Frith and Castleford till I see my way into
the future.'

I did not know what he intended either then
or when he gave his voice against dismembering
the property by selling the Wattleseaea estate, but
arranged for raising Selina's income otherwise, persuading
my father to let him undertake the building
of the required cottages out of his own resources,
on principles much more wholesome than were
likely to be employed by the speculator. Nor did
I grasp what was in his mind when he made me
look out my ' ghost journal,' as we called my record
of each apparition reported in the mullion chamber
or the lawn, with marks to those about which we

had no reasonable doubt. Separately there might
be explanation, but conjointly and in connection
with the date they had a remarkable force.

I am resolved,' said Clarence, ' to see whether
that figure can have a purpose. I have thought
of it all those years. It has hitherto had no fair
play. I was too much upset by the sight, and
beaten by the utter incredulity of everybody else ;
but now I am determined to look into it.'

There was both awe and resolution in his
countenance, and I only stipulated that he should
not be alone, or with no more locomotive companion
than myself. Martyn was as old as I
had been at our former vigil, and a person to be
relied on.

A few months ago he would have treated the
matter as a curious adventurous enterprise  a concession
to superstition or imagination ; but now he
took it up with much grave earnestness. He had
been discussing the evidence for such phenomena
with friends at Oxford, and the conclusion had
been that they were at times permitted, sometimes
as warnings, sometimes to accomplish the redress
of a wrong, sometimes to teach us the reality of
the spiritual world about us ; and, likewise, that
some constitutions were more susceptible than others
to these influences. Of course he had adduced all
that he knew of his domestic haunted chamber,

but had found himself uncertain as to the amount
of direct or trustworthy evidence. So he eagerly
read our sittings, and was very anxious to keep watch
with Clarence, though there were greater difficulties
in the way than when the outer chamber was
Griffith's sitting-room, and always had a fire lighted.
To our disappointment, likewise, there came an
invitation from the Eastwards for the evening of
the 27th of December, the second of the recurring-days
of the phantom's appearance. My father could
not, and my mother would not go, but they so much
wanted my brothers and sister to accept it that
it could not well be declined. It was partly a
political affair, and my father was anxious to put
Clarence forward, and make him take his place as
the future squire ; and my mother thought depression
had lasted long enough with her children, and
did not like to see Martyn so grave and preoccupied.
It was quite right and very nice in him, dear boy,
but it was not natural at his age, though he was
to be a clergyman.'

As to Emily, her gentle cheerfulness had helped
us all through our time of sorrow, and just now
we had been gratified by the tidings of young
Lawrence Frith. That youth was doing extremely
well. There had been golden reports from manager
and chaplain, addressed to Mr. Castleford, the latter
adding that the young man evidently owed much

to Mr. Winslow's influence. Moreover, Lawrence
had turned out an excellent correspondent. Long
letters, worthy of forming a book of travels, came
regularly to Clarence and me, indeed they were
thought worth being copied into that fat clasped
MS. book in the study. Writing them must have
been a real solace to the exile, in his island outside
the town, whither all the outer barbarians were
relegated. So, no doubt, was the packing of the
gifts that were gradually making Prospect Cottage
into a Chinese exhibition of nodding mandarins,
ivory balls, exquisite little cups, and faggots of tea.
Also, a Chinese walking doll was sent humbly as
an offering for the amusement of Miss Winslow's
school children, whom indeed she astonished beyond
measure ; and though her wheels are out of order,
and her movements uncertain, she is still a stereotyped
incident in the Christmas entertainments.

There was no question but that these letters
and remembrances gave great pleasure to Emily ;
but I believe she was not in the least conscious
that though greater in degree, it was not of the
same quality as that she felt when a runaway
scholar who had gone to sea presented her in
token of gratitude with a couple of dried sea-horses.


THE MIDNIGHT CHASE.

What human creature in the dead of night

Had coursed, like hunted hare, that cruel distance,
Had sought the door, the window in her flight
Striving for dear existence ? '

Hood.

Ox the night of the 26th of December, Clarence and
Martyn, well wrapped in greatcoats, stole into the
outer mullion room ; but though the usual sounds
were heard, and the mysterious light again appeared,
Martyn perceived nothing else, and even Clarence
declared that if there were anything besides, it was
far less distinct to him than it had been previously.
Could it be that his spiritual perceptions were growing
dimmer as he became older, and outgrew the
sensitiveness of nerves and imagination ?

We came to the conclusion that it would be best
to watch the outside of the house, rather than within
the chamber; and the dinner-party facilitated this,
since it accounted for being up and about nearer
to the hour when the ghost might be expected.

Egress could be had through the little garden door,
and I undertook to sit up and keep up the fire.

All three came to my room on their return home,
for Emily had become aware of our scheme, and
entreated to be allowed to watch with us. Clarence
had unfastened the alarum bell from my shutters,
and taken down the bar after the curtains had been
drawn by the housemaid, and he now opened them.
It was a frosty moonlight night, and the lawn lay
white and crisp, marked with fantastic shadows.
The others looked grave and pale, Emily was in a
thick white shawl and hood, with a swan's down
boa over her black dress, a somewhat ghostly figure
herself, but we were in far too serious a mood for
light observations.

There was something of a shudder about Clarence
as he went to unbolt the back door ; Martyn kept
close to him. We saw them outside, and then
Emily flew after them. From my window I could
watch them advancing on the central gravel walk,
Emily standing still between her brothers, clasping
an arm of each. I saw the light near the ruin, and
caught some sounds as of shrieks and of threatening
voices, the light flitted towards the gable of the
mullion rooms, and then was the concluding scream.
All was over, and the three came back much agitated,
Emily sinking into an armchair, panting, her hands
over her face, and a nervous trembling through her

whole frame, Martyn's eyes looking wide and scared,
Clarence with the well-known look of terror on his
face. He hurried to fetch the tray of wine and
water that was always left on the table when anyone
went to a party at night, but he shivered too
much to prevent the glasses from jingling, and I had
to pour out the sherry and administer it to Emily.
Oh ! poor, poor thing,' she gasped out.

'You saw?' I exclaimed.

1 They did,' said Martyn ; ' I only saw the light,
and heard ! That was enough !' and he shuddered
again.

Then Emily did,' I began, but Clarence cut me
short ' Don't ask her to-night.'

Oh ! let me tell,' cried Emily ; ' I can't go away
to bed till I have had it out.'

Then she gave the details, which were the more
notable because she had not, like Martyn, been studying
our sittings, and had heard comparatively little
of the apparition.

When I joined the boys she said, ' I looked
toward the mullion rooms ; I saw the windows
lighted up, and heard a sobbing and crying inside.'

1 So did I,' put in Martyn, and Clarence bent his
head.

Then,' added Emily, ' by the moonlight I saw
the gable end, not blank, and covered by the magnolia
as it is now, but with stone steps up to the

VOL. II. M

bricked-up doorway. The door opened, the light
spread, and there came out a lady in black, with a
lamp in one hand, and a kind of parcel in the other,
and oh, when she turned her face this way, it was
Ellen's !'

So you called out whispered Martyn.
Dear Ellen, not as she used to be,' added Emily,
but like what she was when last I saw her ; no,
hardly that either, for this was sad, sad, scared,
terrified, with eyes all tears, as Ellen never, never
was.'

I saw,' added Clarence, ' I saw the shape, but

not the countenance and expression as I used to do.'

She came down the steps,' continued Emily,

1 looking about her as if making her escape, but, just

as she came opposite to us, there was a sound of tipsy

laughing and singing from the gate up by the wood.'

I thought it real,' said Martyn.

Then,' continued Emily, ' she wavered, then

turned and went under an arch in the ruin  I fancied

she was hiding something  then came out and fled

across to the steps ; but there were two dark men

rushing after her, and at the stone steps there was

a frightful shriek, and then it was all over, the steps

gone, all quiet, and the magnolia leaves glistening

in the moonshine. Oh ! what can it all mean V

Went under the arch repeated Clarence. ' Is
it what she hid there that keeps her from resting V

Then you believe it really happened ? ' said
Emily, ' that some terrible scene is being acted over
again. Oh ! but can it be the real spirits !'

That is one of the great mysteries answered
Martyn ; ' but I could tell you of other instances.'

Don't now,' I interposed ; c Emily has had quite
enough.'

We reminded her that the ghastly tragedy was
over and would not recur again for another year;
but she was greatly shaken, and we were very sorry
for her, when the clock warned her to go to her own
room, whither Martyn escorted her. He lighted
every candle he could find, and revived the fire ; but
she was sadly overcome by what she had witnessed,
she lay awake all the rest of the night, and in the
morning, looked so unwell, and had so little to tell
about the party that my mother thought her spirits
had been too much broken for gaieties.

The real cause could not be confessed, for it
would have been ascribed to some kind of delirium,
and have made a commotion for which my father
was unfit. Besides, we had reached an age when,
though we would not have disobeyed, liberty of
thought and action had become needful. All our
private confabulations were on this extraordinary
scene. We looked for the arch in the ruin, but
there was, as our morning senses told us, nothing of
the kind. She tried to sketch her remembrance of

both that and the gable of the mullion chamber,
and Martyn prowled about in search of some hiding-place.
Our antiquarian friend, Mr. Stafford, had
made a conjectural drawing of the Chapel restored,
and all the portfolios about the house were searched
for it, disquieting mamma, who suspected Martyn's
Oxford notions of intending to rebuild it, nor would
he say that it ought not to be done. However, he
with his more advanced ecclesiology, pronounced
Mr. Stafford's reconstruction to be absolutely mistaken
and impossible, and set to work on a fresh
plan, which, by the bye, he derides at present. It
afforded, however, an excuse for routing under the
ivy and among the stones, but without much profit.
From the mouldings on the materials and in the
stables and the front porch, it was evident that the
chapel had been used as a quarry, and Emily's
arch was very probably that of the entrance door.
In a dry summer, the foundations of the walls and
piers could be traced on the turf, and the stumps of
one or two columns remained, but the rest was only
a confused heap of fragments within which no one
could have entered as in that strange vision.

Another thing became clear. There had once
been a wall between the beech wood and the lawn,
with a gate or door in it ; Chapman could just remember
its being taken down, in James Winslow's
early married life, when landscape gardening was

the fashion. It must have been through this that
the "Winslow brothers were returning, when poor
Margaret perhaps expected them to enter by the
front.

We wished we could have consulted Dame Dear-love,
but she had died a few years before, and her
school was extinct.

WILLS OLD AND NEW.

And that to-night thou must watch with me
To win the treasure of the tomb.'

Scott.

Some seasons seem to be peculiarly marked, as if
Death did indeed walk forth in them.

Old Mr. Frith died in the spring of 1841, and
it proved that he had shown his gratitude to Clarence
by a legacy of shares in the firm amounting to about
2000. The rest of his interest therein went to
Lawrence Frith, and his funded property to his sister,
Mrs. Stevens, a very fair and upright disposition of
his wealth.

Only six weeks later, my father had a sudden
seizure, and there was only time to summon Clarence
from London and Martyn from Oxford, before a
second attack closed his righteous and godly career
upon earth.

My mother was very still and calm, hardly shedding
a tear, but her whole demeanour was as if life
were over for her, and she had nothing to do save

to wait. She seemed to care very little for tenderness
or attentions on our part. Xo doubt she
would have been more desolate without them, but
we always had a baffled feeling, as though our affection
were contrasted with her perfect union with
her husband. Yet they had been a singularly undemonstrative
couple; I never saw a kiss pass between
them, except as greeting or farewell before or after
a journey ; and if my mother could not use the terms
papa or your father, she always said, ' Mr. WInslow. 1
There was a large gathering at the funeral, including
Mr. Fordyce, but he slept at Hillside, and we
scarcely saw him  only for a few kind words and
squeezes of the hand. Holy "Week was begun, and he
had to hurry back to Beachharbour that very night.
The will had been made on my father's coming
into the inheritance. It provided a jointure of 800
per annum for my mother, and gave each of the
younger children 3000. A codicil had been added
shortly after Griffith's death, written in my father's
hand, and witnessed by Mr. Henderson and Amos
Bell. This put Clarence in the position of heir;
secured 500 a year to Griffith's widow, charged on
the estate, and likewise an additional 200 a year
to Emily and to me, hers till marriage, mine for life,
300 a year to Martyn, until Earlscombe Eectory
should be voided, when it was to be offered to him.
The executors had originally been Mr. Castleford

and my mother, but by this codicil, Clarence was
substituted for the former.

The legacies did not come out of the Chantry
House property, for my father had, of course, means
of his own besides, and bequests had accrued to both
him and my mother ; but Clarence was inheriting the
estate much more burthened than it had been in
1829, having 2000 a year to raise out of its
proceeds.

My mother was quite equal to business, with a
sort of outside sense, which she applied to it when
needful. Clarence made it at once evident to her
that she was still mistress of Chantry House, and
that it was still to be our home ; and she immediately
calculated what each ought to contribute
to the housekeeping. She looked rather blank when
she found that Clarence did not mean to give up
business, nor even to become a sleeping partner;
but when she examined into ways and means, she
allowed that he was prudent, and that perhaps it was
due to Mr. Castleford not to deprive him of an
efficient helper under present circumstances. Meantime
she was content to do her best for Earlscombe 'for
the present,' by which she meant till her son brought
home a wife ; but we knew that to him the words
bore a different meaning, though he was still in
doubt and uncertainty how to act, and what might
be the wrong to be undone.

He was anxious to persuade her to go from home
for a short time, and prevailed on her at last to take
Emily and me to Dawlish, while the repairs went
on which had been deferred during my father's
feebleness ; at least that was the excuse. We two,
going with great regret, knew that his real reason
was to have an opportunity for a search among the
ruins.

It was in June, just as Martyn came back from
Oxford, eager to share in the quest. Those two
brothers would trust no one to help them, but oneby
one, in the long summer evenings, they moved
each of those stones ; I believe the servants thought
they were crazed, but they could explain with some
truth that they wanted to clear up the disputed points
as to the architecture, as indeed they succeeded
in doing.

They had, however, nearly given up, having
reached the original pavement and disinterred the
piscina of the side altar, also a beautiful coffin lid
with a floated cross ; when, in a kind of hollow,
Martyn lit upon the rotten remains of something
silken, knotted together. It seemed to have enclosed
a bundle. There were some rags that might have
been a change of clothing, also a Prayer-book, decayed
completely except the leathern covering, inside which
was the startling inscription, ' Margaret Winslow,
her booke ; Lord, have mercy on a miserable widow

woman.' There was also a thick leathern roll, containing
needles, pins, and scissors, entirely corroded,
and within these a paper, carefully folded, bnt almost
destroyed by the action of damp and the rust of the
steel, so that only thus much was visible. ' I, Margaret
Winslow, being of sound mind, do hereby give
and bequeath '

Then came stains that defaced every line, till the
extreme end, where a seal remained ; the date 1707
was legible, and there were some scrawls, probably
the poor lady's signature, and perhaps that of witnesses.
Clarence and Martyn said very little to one
another, but they set out for Dawlish the next day.

Found ' was indicated to us, but no more, for
they arrived late, and had to sleep at the hotel, after
an evening when we were delighted to hear my
mother ask so many questions about household and
parish affairs. In the morning she was pleased to
send all ' the children ' out on the beach, then free
from the railway. It was a beautiful day, with the
intensely blue South Devon sea dancing in golden
ripples, and breaking on the shore with the sound
Clarence loved so well, as, in the shade of the dark
crimson cliffs, Emily sat at my feet and my brothers
unfolded their strange discoveries into her lap.
There was a kind of solemnity in the thing ; we
scarcely spoke, except that Emily said, ' Oh, will
she come again,' and, as the tears gathered at sight

of the pathetic petition in the old book, ' Was that
granted ? '

We reconstructed our theory. The poor lady
must have repented of the unjust will forced from
her by her stepsons, and contrived to make another ;
but she must have been kept a captive until, during
their absence at some Christmas conviviality, she
tried to escape ; but hearing sounds betokening their
return, she had only time to hide the bundle in the
ruin before she was detected, and in the scuffle
received a fatal blow.

But why,' I objected, c did she not remain hidden
till her enemies were safe in the house ?'

'Terrified beyond the use of her senses,' said
Clarence.

1 By all accounts,' said Martyn, ' the poor creature
must have been rather a silly woman.'

For shame, Martyn,' cried Emily, ' how can you
tell ? They might have seen her go in, or she
might have feared being missed.'

Or if you watch next Christmas you may see it
all explained.'

To which Emily replied with a shiver that nothing
would induce her to go through it again, and
indeed she hoped the spirit would rest since the
discovery had been made.

And then ? '  one of us said, and there was a
silence, and another futile attempt to read the will.

1 1 shall take it to London and see what an expert
can do with it said Clarence. ' I have heard of
wonderful decipherings in the Record Office ; but
you will remember that even if it can be made out,
it will hardly invalidate our possession after a
hundred and thirty years.'

Clarence !' cried Emily in a horrified voice ; and
I asked if the date were not later than that by
which we inherited.

Three years Clarence said, ( yes ; but as tidings
stand, it is absolutely impossible for me to make
restitution at present. 5

On account of the burthens on the estate?' I said.

Oh, but we could give up said Emily.

'I dare say !' said Clarence, smiling; ' but to say
nothing of poor Selina, my mother would hardly see
it in the same light, nor should I deal rightly, even
if I could make any alterations, I doubt whether my
father would have held himself bound  certainly not
while no one can read this document.'

It would simply outrage his legal mind said
Martyn.

Then what is to be done ? Is the injustice to
be perpetual ? ' asked Emily.

This is what I have thought of said Clarence.
We must leave matters as they are till I can realise
enough either to pay off all these bequests, or to
offer Mr. Fordyce the value of the estate.'

It is not the whole I said.

iSTot the Wattleseaea part. This means Chantry
House and the three farms in the village. 10,000
would cover it.'

'Is it possible ?' asked Emily.

Yes returned Clarence, ' God helping me. You
know our concern is bringing in good returns, and
Mr. Castleford will put me in the way of doing
more with my available capital.'

1 We will save so as to help you !' added Emily.
At which he smiled.

ON A Speed.

Her eyes as stars of twilight fair,
Like twilight too, her dusky hair,
But all things else about her drawn
From May-time and the cheerful dawn,
A dancing shape, an image gay,
To haunt, to startle, and waylay. '

Wordsworth.

Clarence went to London according to his determination,
and as lie had for some time been urgent
that I should try some newly-invented mechanical
appliances, he took me with him, this being the
last expedition of the ancient yellow chariot. One
of his objects was that I should see St. Paul's,
Knightsbridge, which was then the most distinguished
church of our school of thought, and where
there was to be some special preaching. The
Castlefords had a seat there, and I was settled
there hi good time, looking at the few bits of
stained glass then in the east window, when, as the
clergy came in from the vestry, I beheld a familiar
face, and recognised the fine countenance and bearing
of our dear old friend Frank Fordyce.

Then, looking at the row of ladies in front of
me, I beheld for a moment an outline of a profile
recalling many things. Xo doubt, Anne Fordyce
was there, though instead of barely emulating my
stunted stature, she towered above her companions,
looking to my mind most fresh and graceful in
her pretty summer dress ; and I knew that Clarence
saw her too.

I had never heard Mr. Fordyce preach before,
as in his flying visits his ministrations were due at
Hillside ; and I certainly should have been struck
with the force and beauty of his sermon if I had
never known him before. It was curious that it
was on the 49 th Psalm, meant perhaps for the
fashionable congregation, but remarkably chiming
in with the feelings of us, who were conscious of
an inheritance of evil from one who had ' done
well unto himself;' though, no doubt, that was
the last thing honest Parson Frank was thinking'
of.

o

When the service was over, and Anne turned,
she became aware of us, and her face beamed allover.
It was a charming face, with a general likeness
to dear Ellen's, but without the fragile ethereal
look, and all health, bloom, and enjoyment recalling
her father's. She was only moving to let her pew-fellows
pass out, and was waiting for him to come for
her, as he did in a few moments, and he too was all

pleasure and cordiality. He told us when we were
outside that he had come up to preach, and c had
brought Miss Anne up for a spree.' They were at
a hotel, Mrs. Fordyce was at home, and the Lesters
were not in town this season  a matter of rejoicing
to us. Could we not come home and dine with
them at once ? We were too much afraid of disappointing
Gooch to do so, but they made an
appointment to meet us at the Eoyal Academy as
soon as it was open the next morning.

There was a fortnight of enjoyment. Parson
Frank was like a boy out for a holiday. He had
not spent more than a day or two in town for many
years ; Anne had not been there since early childhood,
and they adopted Clarence as their lioniser,
going through such a country-cousin course of
delights as in that memorable time with Ellen.
They even went down to Eton and Windsor, Frank
Fordyce being an old Etonian. I doubt whether
Clarence ever had a more thoroughly happy time,
not even in the north of Devon, for there was no
horse on his mind, and he was not suppressed as
in those days. Indeed, I believe, it is the experience
of others besides ourselves that there is often
more unmixed pleasure on casual holidays like tins
than in those of early youth ; for even if spirits
are less high (which is not always the case), anticipations
are less eager, there is more readiness to

accept whatever comes, more matured appreciation,
and less fret and friction at contretemps,

I was not much of a drag, for when I could not
be with the others, I had old friends, and the
museum was as dear to me as ever, in those recesses
that had been the paradise of my youth ;
but there was a stood deal in which we could all
share, and as usual they were all kind consideration.

Anne overflowed with minute remembrances of
her old home, and Clarence so basked in her sunshine
that it bean to strike me that here might
be the solution of all the perplexities especially
after the first evening, when he had shown his
strange discovery to Mr. Fordyce, who simply laughed
and said we need not trouble ourselves about it.
Illegible was it ? He was heartily glad to hear
that it was. Even otherwise, forty years' possession
was quite enough, and then he pointed to the
grate, and said that was the best place for such
things. There was no fire, but Clarence could
hardly rescue the paper from being torn up.

As to the ghost, he knew much less than his
daughter Ellen had done. He said his old aunt had
some stories about Chantry House being haunted,
and had thought it incumbent on her to hate the
AVinslows, but he had thought it all nonsense, and
such stories were much better forgotten 'Would
he not see if there were any letters ?'

vol. n. x

There might be, perhaps in the solicitor's office
at Bath, but if he ever got hold of them, he should
certainly bum them. "What was the use of being
Christians, if such quarrels were to be remembered ?

Anne knew nothing. Aunt Peggy had died
before she could remember, and even Martyn had
been discreet. Clarence said no more after that
one conversation, and seemed to me engrossed
between his necessary business at the office, and
the pleasant expeditions with the Fordyce. Only
when they were on the point of returning home,
did he tell me that the will had been pronounced
utterly past deciphering, and that he thought he
saw a way of setting all straight. ' So do 1/ was
my rejoinder, and there must have been a foolishly
sagacious expression about me that made him colour
up, and say, 'No such thing, Edward. Don't put
that into my head.'

Isn't it there already ?'

It ought not to be. It would be mere treachery
in these sweet, fresh, young, innocent days of hers,
knowing too what her mother would think of it and
of me. Didn't you observe in old Frank's unguarded
way of reading letters aloud, and then trying to
suppress bits, that Mrs. Fordyce was not at all
happy at our being so much about with them, poor
woman. No wonder! the child is too young,' he
added, showing how much, after all, he was thinking

of it. It would be taking a base advantage of them
now.

1 But by and by ?'

If she should be still free when the great end
is achieved and the evil repaired, then I might dare.'

He broke off with a look of glad hope, and I
could see it was forbearance rather than constitutional
diffidence that withheld him from awakening
the maiden's feelings. He was a very fine looking
man, in his prime  tall, strong, and well made, with
a singularly grave, thoughtful expression, and a rare
but most winning smile ; and Anne was overflowing
with affectionate gladness at intercourse with one
who belonged to the golden age of her childhood.
I could scarcely believe but that in the friction of
the parting the spark would be elicited, and I should
even have liked to kindle it for them myself, being
tolerably certain that warm-hearted, unguarded Parson
Frank would forget all about his lady and blow
it with all his might.

We dined with the Fordyce at their hotel, and
sat in the twilight with the windows open, and we
made Anne and Clarence sin:, as both could do
without notes, but he would not undertake to remember
anything with an atom of sentiment in it,
and when Anne did sing, ' Auld lang syne with all
her heart, he went and got into a dark corner, and
barely said, ' Thank you.'

Not a definite answer could be extracted from
him in reply to all the warm invitations to Beach-harbour
that were lavished on us by the father,
while the daughter expatiated on its charms ; the
rocks I might sketch, the waves and the delicious
boating, and above all the fisher children and the
church. Nothing was wanting but to have us all
there ! Why had we not brought Mrs. Winslow,
and Emily, and Martyn, instead of going to Dawlish?

Good creatures, they little knew the chill that
had been cast upon Martyn. They even bemoaned
the having seen so little of him. And we knew all
the time that they were mice at play in the absence
of their excellent and cautious cat.

Now mind you do come !' said Anne, as we
were in the act of taking leave. ' It would be as
good as Hillside to have you by my Lion rock. He
has a nose just like old Chapman's, and you must
sketch it before it crumbles off. Yes, and I want
to show you all the dear old things you made for
my baby-house after the fire, your dear little wardrobe
and all.'

She was coming out with us, oblivious that a
London hotel was not like her own free sea-side
house. Her father was out at the carriage door,
prepared to help me in, Clarence halted a moment 

Please, pray, go back, Anne,' he said, and his
voice trembled. ' This is not home, you know.'

She started back, but paused. ' You'll not forget.'

'Oh no ; no fear of my forgetting.'

And when seated beside me, he leant back with
a sigh.

'How could you help ?' I said.

1 How ? Why the perfect, innocent, childish,
unconsciousness of the thing,' he said, and became
silent except for one murmur on the way.

Consequences must be borne '

THE PRICE.

With thee, my bark, I'll swiftly go
Athwart the foaming brine.'

Lord Byron.

Clarence would not tell me his purpose, he said,
till he had considered it more fully ; nor could we
have much conversation on the way home, as my
mother had arranged that we should bring an old
friend of hers back with us to pay her a visit. So
I had to sit inside and make myself agreeable to
Mrs. Brighton, while Clarence had plenty of leisure
for meditation outside on the box seat. The good
lady said much on the desirableness of marriage for
Clarence, and the comfort it would be to my mother
to see Emily settled.

We had heard much in town of railway shares ;
and the fortunes of Hudson, the railway king, were
under discussion. I suspected Clarence of cogitating
the using his capital in this manner ; and hoped that
when he saw his way, he might not think it dishonourable
to come into further contact with Anne,

and reveal his hopes. He allowed that he was considering
of such investments, but would not say anymore.


My mother and Emily had, in the meantime,
been escorted home by Martyn. The first thing
Clarence did was to bespeak Emily's company in a
turn in the garden. What passed then I never
knew nor guessed for years after. He consulted her
whether, in case he were absent from England for
five, seven, or ten years, she would be equal to the
care of my mother and me. Martyn, when ordained,
would have duties elsewhere, and could only be
reckoned upon in emergencies. My mother, though
vigorous and practical, had shown symptoms of gout,
and if she were ill, I could hardly have done much
for her ; and on the other hand, though my health
and powers of moving were at their best, and I was
capable of the headwork of the estate, I was scarcely
fit to be the representative member of the family.
Moreover, these good creatures took into consideration
that poor mamma and I would have been rather
at a loss as each other's sole companions. I could
sort shades for her Berlin work, and even solve
problems of intricate knitting, and I could read to
her in the evening ; but I could not trot after her to
her garden, poultry-yard, and cottages ; nor could she
enter into the pursuits that Emily had shared with
me for so many years. Our connecting link, that

clear sister, knew how sorely she would be missed,
and she told Clarence that she felt fully competent
to undertake, conjointly with us, all that would be
incumbent on Chantry House, if he really wanted to
be absent. For the rest, Clarence believed my
mother would be the happier for being left regent
over the estate ; and his scheme broke upon me that
very forenoon, when my mother and he were settling
some executor's business together, and he told her
that Mr. Castleford wished him to go out to Hongkong,
which was then newly ceded to the English,
and where the firm wished to establish a house of
business.

You can't think of it,' she exclaimed, and the
sound fell like a knell on my ears.

1 1 think I must,' was his answer. ' We shall
be cut out if we do not get a footing there, and
there is no one who can quite answer the purpose.'

'Not that young Frith '

Ten to one but he is on his way home.
Besides, if not, he has his own work at Canton.
We see our way to very considerable advantages,
if '

Advantages !' she interrupted. * I hate speculation.
I should have thought you might be contented
with your station ; but that is the worst
of merchants,  they never know when to stop. I
suppose your ambition is to make this a great

overgrown mansion, so that your father would not
know it again.'

Certainly not that, mamma,' said Clarence,
smiling ; 'it is the last thing I should think of ;
but stopping would in this case mean going backward.'


'Why can't Mr. Castleford send one of his
own sons ? '

Probably Walter may come out by and by, but
he has not experience enough for this.'

Clarence had not in the least anticipated my
mother's opposition, for he had come to underestimate
her affection for and reliance on him.
He had us all against him, for not only could we
not bear to part with him, but the climate of
Hong-Kong was in evil repute, and 1 had become
persuaded that, with his knowledge of business,
railway shares and scrip might be made to realise
the amount needed, but he said, ' That is what /
call speculation. The other matter is trade in which,
with Heaven's blessing, I can hope to prosper.'

He explained that Mr. Castleford had received
him on his coming to London with almost a request
that he would undertake this expedition ; but with
fears whether, in his new position, he could or
would do so, although his presence in China would
be very important to the firm at this juncture ; and
there would be opportunities which would probably

result in very considerable profits after a few years.
If Clarence had been, as before, a mere younger
brother, it would have been thought an excellent
chance; and he would almost have felt bound by
his obligations to Mr. Castleford to undertake the
first starting of the enterprise, if it had not been
for our recent loss, and the doubt whether he could
be spared from home.

He made light of the dangers of climate. He
had never suffered in that way in his naval days,
and scarcely knew what serious illness meant.
Indeed, he had outgrown much of that sensibility
of nerve which had made him so curiously open
to spiritual or semi-spiritual impressions.

Any way,' he said, ' the thing is right to be done,
provided my mother does not make an absolute
point of my giving it up ; and whether she does
or not depends a good deal on how you others
put it to her.'

Plight on Air. Castleford's account ? ' I asked.

c That is one side of it. To refuse would put
him in a serious difficulty ; but I could perhaps
come home sooner if it were not for this other
matter. I told him so far as that it was an object
with me to raise this sum in a few years, and he
showed me how there is every likelihood of my
being able to do so out there. So now I feel in
your hands. If you all, and Edward chiefly, set

to and persuade my mother that this undertaking
is a dangerous business, and that I can only be
led to it by inordinate love of riches '

'Sto, no '

1 That's what she thinks pursued Clarence, ' and
that I want to be a grander man than my father.
That's at the bottom of her mind, I see. Well, if
you deplore this, and let her think the place can't
do without me, she will come out in her strength
and make it my duty to stay at home.'

It is very tempting,' said Emily.

"We all undertook to give up something.'

We never thought it would come in this way !'

We never do,' said Clarence.

1 Tell me,' said Martyn, ' is this to content that
ghost, poor thing ? For it is very hard to believe
in her, except in the mullion room in December.'

Exactly so, Martyn,' he answered. ' Impressions
fade, and the intellect fails to accept them. But I
do not think that is my motive. We know that a
wicked deed was done by our ancestor, and we
hardly have the right to pray, " Remember not the
sins of our forefathers," unless, now that we know
the crime, we attempt what restitution in us lies.'

There was no resisting after this appeal, and
after the first shock, my mother was ready to admit
that as Clarence owed everything to Mr. Castleford,
he could not well desert the firm, if it were really

needful for its welfare that he should go out. We
got her to look on Mr. Castleford as captain of
the ship, and Clarence as first lieutenant ; and when
she was once convinced that he did not want to
aggrandise the family, but to do his duty, she
dropped her objections ; and we soon saw that the
occupations that his absence would impose on her
would be a fresh interest in life.

Just as the decision was thus ratified, a packet
from Canton arrived for Clarence from Bristol. It
was the first reply of young Frith to the tidings
of the bequest which had changed the poor clerk
to a wealthy man, owning a large proportion of
the shares of the prosperous house.

I asked if he were coming home, and Clarence
briefly replied that he did not know,  'it depended
'

Is he going to wed a fair Chinese with lily
feet ? ' asked Martyn, to which the reply was an
unusually discourteous ' Bosh as Clarence escaped
with his letter. He was so reticent about it that
I required a solemn assurance that poor Lawrence's
head had not been turned by his fortune, and that
there was nothing wrong with him. Indeed, there
was great stupidity in never guessing the purport of
that thick letter, nor that it contained one for
Emily, where Lawrence Frith laid himself, and all
that he had, at her feet, ascribing to her all the

resolution with which he had kept from evil, and
entreating permission to come home and endeavour
to win her heart. We lived so constantly together
that it is surprising that Clarence contrived to
give the letter to Emily in private. She implored
him to say nothing to us, and brought him the
next day her letter of uncompromising refusal.

He asked whether it would have been the same
if he had intended to remain at home.

As if you were a woman, you conceited fellow
was all the answer she vouchsafed him.

Nor could he ascertain, nor perhaps would she
herself examine, on which side lay her heart of
hearts. The proof had come whether she would
abide by her pledge to him to accept the care of
us in his absence. When he asked it, it had not
occurred to him that it might be a renunciation of
marriage. Now he perceived that so it had been,
but she kept her counsel and so did he. We
others never guessed at what was going on between
those two.

PAYING THE COST.
But oh ! the difference to me.

"Wordsworth.

So Clarence was gone, and our new life begun in its
changed aspect. Emily showed an almost feverish
eagerness to make it busy and cheerful, getting up
a sewing class in the village, resuming the study of
Greek, grappling with the natural system in botany,
all of which had been fitfully proposed but hindered
by interruptions and my father's feebleness.

On a suggestion of Mr. Stafford's, we set to work
on that History of Letter Writing which, what with
collecting materials, and making translations, lasted
us three years altogether, and was a great resource
and pleasure, besides ultimately bringing in a fraction
towards the great purpose. Emily has confessed
that she worked away a good deal of vague, weary
depression, and sense of monotony into those Greek
choruses : but to us she was always a sunbeam, with
her ever ready attention, and the playfulness which

resumed more of genuine mirth after the first effort
and strain of spirits were over.

Then journal-letters on either side began to bridge
the gulf of separation,  those which, minus all the
specially interesting portions, are to be seen in the
volume we culled from them, and which had considerable
success in its day.

Martyn worked in the parish and read with Mr.
Henderson till he was old enough for Ordination,
and then took the curacy of St. Sultan's, under a
hardworking London vicar, and thenceforth his holidays
were our festivals. Our old London friends
pitied us for what they viewed as a fearfully dull
life, and in the visits they occasionally paid us
thought they were doing us a great favour by bringing
us new ideas and shooting our partridges.

We hardly deserved their compassion : our lives
were full of interest to ourselves  that interest which
comes of doing ever so feeble a stroke of work in
one great cause ; and there was much keen participation
in the general life of the Church in the crisis
through which she was passing. We found that,
what with drawing pictures, writing little books,
preparing lessons for teachers, and much besides
which is now ready done by the National Society
and Sunday School Institute, we could do a good
deal to assist Martyn in his London work, and our
own grew upon us.

For the first year of her widowhood, my mother
shrank from society, and afterwards had only spasmodic
fits of doubt whether it were not her duty to
make my sister go out more. So that now and then
Emily did go to a party, or to make a visit of some
days or weeks from home, and then we knew how
valuable she was. It would be hard to say whether
my mother were relieved or disappointed when Emily
refused James Eastwood, in spite of many persuasions,
not only from himself, but his family. I believe
mamma thought it selfish to be glad, and that it was
a failure in duty not to have performed that weighty
matter of marrying her daughter ; feeling in someway
inferior to ladies who had disposed of a whole
flock under five-ands twenty, whereas she had not
been able to get rid of a single one !

Of Clarence's doings in China I need not speak ;
you have read of them in the book for yourselves,
and you know how his work prospered, so that the
results more than fulfilled his expectations, and
raised the firm to the pitch of greatness and reputation
which it has ever since preserved, and this
without soiling his hands with the miserable opium
traffic. Some of the subordinates were so set on
the gains to be thus obtained, that he and Lawrence
Frith had a severe struggle with them to prevent it,
and were forced conjointly to use all their authority
as principals to make it impossible. Those two

were the greatest of friends. Their chief relaxation
was one another's company, and their earnest aim
was to support the Christian mission, and to keep
up the tone of their English dependants, a terribly
difficult matter, and one that made the time of their
return somewhat doubtful, even when Walter Castleford
was gone out to relieve them. Their health had
kept up so well that we had ceased to be anxious on
that point, and it was through the Castlefords that
we received the first hint that Clarence might not
be as well as his absence of complaint had led us
to believe.

In fact he had never been well since a terrible
tempest, when he had worked hard and exposed himself
to save life. I never could hear the particulars,
for Lawrence was away, and Clarence could not
write about it himself, having been prostrated by
one of those chills so perilous in hot countries ; but
from all I have heard, no resident in Hong-Kong
would have believed that Mr. Winslow's courage
could ever have been called in question. He ought
to have come home immediately after that attack of
fever ; for the five years were over, and his work
nearly done ; but there was need to consolidate his
achievements, and a strong man is only too apt to
trifle with his health. We might have guessed
something by the languor and brevity of his letters,
but we thought the absence of detail owing to his
VOL. II. o

expectation of soon seeing us ; and had gone on for
months expecting the announcement of a speedy
return, when an unexpected shock fell on us. Our
dear mother was still an active woman, with few
signs of age about her, when, in her sixty-seventh
year, she was almost suddenly taken from us by an
attack of gout in the stomach.

I feel as if I had not done her justice, and as if
she might seem stern, unsympathising, and lacking
in tenderness. Yet nothing could be further from
the truth. She was an old-fashioned mother, who
held it her duty to keep up her authority, and
counted over-familiarity and indulgence as sins.
To her ' the holy spirit of discipline was the beginning
of wisdom,' and to make her children godly,
truthful, and honourable was a much greater object
than to win their love. And their love she had,
and kept to a far higher degree than seems to bethe
case with those who court affection by caresses
and indulgence. We knew that her approval was
of a generous kind, we prized enthusiastically her
rare betrayals of her motherly tenderness, and we
depended on her in a manner we only realised in
the desolation, dreariness, and helplessness that fell
upon us, when we knew that she was gone. She
had not, nor had any of us, understood that she was
dying, and she had uttered only a few words that
could imply any such thought. On hearing that

there was a letter from Clarence, she said, ' Poor
Clarence ! I should like to have seen him. He is
a good boy after all. I've been hard on him, but it
will all be right now. God Almighty bless him !'

That was the only formal blessing she left among
us. Indeed, the last time I saw her was with an
ordinary good-night at the foot of the stairs. Emily
said she was glad that I had not to carry with me
the remembrance of those paroxysms of suffering.
My dear Emily had alone the whole force of that
trial  or shall I call it privilege ? Marty n did
not reach home till some hours after all was over,
poor boy.

And in the midst of our desolateness, just as we
had let the daylight in again upon our diminished
numbers round the table, came a letter from Hongkong
addressed to me in Lawrence Frith's writing,
and the first thing I saw was a scrawl, as
follows : 

Dearest Ted  All is in your hands. You can
do it God bless you all. W. C. W7

When I came to myself, and could see and hear,
Martyn was impressing on me that where there is
life there is hope, though indeed, according to poor
Lawrence's letter, there was little of either. He
feared our hearing indirectly, and therefore wrote
to prepare us.

He had been summoned to Hong-Kong to find
Clarence lying desperately ill, for the most part
semi-delirious, holding converse with invisible forms,
or entreating some one to let him alone  he had done
his best. In one of his more lucid intervals he had
made Lawrence find that note in a case that lay near
him, and promise to send it ; and he had tried to
send some messages, but they had become confused,
and he was too weak to speak further.

The next mail was sure to bring the last tidings
of one who had given his life for right and justice.
It was only a reprieve that what it actually brought
was the intelligence that he was still alive, and
more sensible, and had been able to take much
pleasure in seeing the friend of his youth, Captain
Coles, who was there with his ship, the Douro.
Then there had been a relapse. Captain Coles had
brought his doctor to see him, and it had been
pronounced that the best chance of saving him was
a sea-voyage. The Douro had just received orders
to return to England, and Coles had offered to take
home both the friends as guests, though there
was evidently little hope that our brother would
reach any earthly home. As we knew afterwards,
he had smiled and said it was like rehabilitation to
have the chance of dying on board one of Hem.
ships. And he was held in such respect, and was
so entirely one of the leading men of the little

growing colony, and had been known as such a
friend to the naval men, and had so gallantly aided
a Queen's ship in that hurricane, that his passage
home in this manner only seemed a natural tribute
of respect. A few last words from Lawrence told
us that he was safely on board, all unconscious of
the silent, almost weeping, procession that had
escorted his litter to the Gourds boat, only too
much as if it were his bier. In fact, Captain Coles
actually promised him that if he died at sea he
should be buried with the old flag.

We could not hope to hear more for at least six
weeks, since our letter had come by overland mail,
and the Douro would take her time. It was a
comfort in this waiting time that Martyn could be
with us. His rector had been promoted ; there was
a general change of curates ; and as Martyn had
been working up to the utmost limits of his strength,
we had no scruple in inducing him to remain with
us, and undertake nothing fresh till this crisis was
past. Though as to rest, not one Sunday passed
without requests for his assistance from one or more
of the neighbouring clergy.

ACHIEVED.

And hopes and fears that kindle hope,
An undistinguishable throng,
And gentle wishes long subdued 
Subdued and cherished long.'

S. T. Coleridge.

The first that we did hear of our brother was a letter
with a Falmouth postmark, which we scarcely dared
to open. There was not much in it, but that was
enough. 'D. G.  I shall see you all again. We
put in at Portsmouth.'

There was no staying at home after that. We
three lost no time in starting, for railways had
become available, and by the time we had driven
from the station at Portsmouth the Douro had been
signalled.

Martyn took a boat and went on board alone,
for besides that Emily did not like to leave me,
her dress would have been a revelation that aU
were no longer there to greet the arrival. The
precaution was, however, unnecessary. There stood

Clarence on deck, and after the first greeting, he
laid his hand on Martyn's arm and said, ' My mother
is gone ?' and on the wondering assent, c I was quite
sure of it.'

So they came ashore, Clarence lying in the
man-of-war's boat, in which his friend insisted on
sending him, able now to give a smiling response
and salute to the three cheers with which the
crew took leave of him. He was carried up to
our hotel on a stretcher by half-a-dozen blue jackets.
Indeed he was grievously changed, looking so worn
and weak, so hollow-eyed and yellow, and so fearfully
wasted, that the very memory is painful ; and
able to do nothing but lie on the sofa holding
Emily's hand, gazing at us with a face full of ineffable
peace and gladness. There was a misgiving
upon me that he had only come back to finish
his work and bid us farewell.

Kindly and considerately they had sent him on
before with Martyn. In a quarter of an hour's
time his good doctor came in with Lawrence Frith,
a considerable contrast to our poor Clarence, for
the slim gypsy lad had developed into a strikingly
handsome man, still slender and lithe, but with
a fine bearing, and his bronzed complexion suiting
well with his dark shining hair and beautiful
eyes. They had brought some of the luggage,
and the doctor insisted that his patient should goto

bed directly, and rest completely before trying
to talk.

Then we heard that his condition, though still
anxious, was far from being hopeless, and that after
the tropics had been passed, he had been gradually
improving. The kind doctor had got leave to go
up to London with us, and talk over the case with

L , and he hoped Clarence might be able to

bear the journey by the next afternoon.

Presently after came Captain Coles, whom we
had not seen since the short visit when we had
idolised the big overgrown midshipman, whom Clarence
exhibited to our respectful and distant admiration
nearly twenty years ago. My mother used
to call him a gentlemanly lad, and that was just
what he was still, with a singularly soft gentle
manner, gallant officer and post-captain as he was.
He cheered me much, for he made no doubt of
Clarence's ultimate recovery, and he added that he
had found the dear fellow so valued and valuable,
so useful in all good works, and so much respected
by all the English residents, 'that really,' said the
captain, ' I did not know whether to deplore that
the service should have lost such a man, or whether
to think it had been a good thing for him, though
not for us, that  that he got into such a scrape.'

I said something of our thanks.

To tell you the truth,' said Coles, ' I had my

doubts whether it had not been a cruel act, for
he had a terrible turn after we got him on board,
and all the sounds of a Queen's ship revived the
past associations, and always of a painful kind in
his delirium, till at last, just as I gave him up,
the whole character of his fancies seemed to change,
and from that time he has been gaining every day.'

We kept the captain to dinner, and gathered a
good deal more understanding of the important
position to which Clarence had risen by force of
character and rectitude of purpose in that strange
little Anglo-Chinese colony ; and afterwards, I was
allowed to make a long visit to Clarence, who,
having eaten and slept, was quite ready to talk.

It seemed that the great distress of his illness
had been the recurrence  nay, aggravation  of the
strange susceptibility of brain and nerve that had
belonged to his earlier days, and with it either
imagination or perception of the spirit-world. Much
that had seemed delirium had belonged to that
double consciousness, and he perfectly recollected it.
As Coles had said, the sights and sounds of the
ship had been a renewal of the saddest time in
his life ; he could not at night divest himself of
the impression that he was under arrest, and the
sins of his life gathered themselves in fearful and
oppressive array, as if to stifle him, and the phantom
of poor Margaret with her lamp  which had haunted

him from the besnnnino- of his illness  seemed to
taunt him with having been too fainthearted and
tardy to be worthy to espouse her cause. The
faith to which he tried to chins: would seem to fail
him in those awful hours, when he could only cry
out mechanical prayers for mercy. Then there had
come a night when he had heard my mother say,
All right now ; God Almighty bless him.' And
therewith the clouds cleared from his mind. The
power of feeling, as well as believing in, the blotting
out of sin, returned, the sense of pardon and peace
calmed him, and from that time he was fully himself
ao'ain, ' though,' he said, ' I knew I should not
see my mother here.'

If she could only have seen him come home
under the Union Jack, cheered by sailors, and
carried ashore by them, it would have been to her
like restoration. Perhaps Clarence in his dreamy
weakness had so felt it, for certainly no other mode
of return to Portsmouth, the very place of his degradation,
could so have soothed him and effaced those
memories. The English sounds were a perfect charm
to him, as well as to Lawrence, the commonest
street cry, the very slices of bread and butter, anything
that was not Chinese, was as water to the
thirsty ! And wasted as was his face, the quiet
rest and joy were ineffable.

Still Portsmouth was not the best place for him,

and we were glad that lie was well enough to go
np to London in the afternoon ; intensely delighting
in the May beauty of the green meadows, and
white blossoming hedgerows, and the Church towers,
especially the gray massiveness of Winchester
Cathedral. ' Christian tokens,' he said, instead of
the gay, gilded pagodas and quaint crumpled roofs
he had left. The soft haze seemed to be such a
rest after the glare of perpetual clearness.

We were all born Londoners, and looked at the
blue fog, and the broad, misty river, and the brooding
smoke, with the affection of natives, to the amazement
of Lawrence, who had never been in town
without being browbeaten and miserable. That he
hardly was now, as he sat beside Emily all the way
up, though they did not say much to one another.

He told us it was quite a new sensation to walk
into the office without timidity, and to have no fears
of a biting, crushing speech about his parents or
himself; but to have the clerks getting up deferentially
as soon as he was known for Mr. Frith. He had
hardly ever been allowed by his old uncle to come
across Mr. Castleford, who was of course cordial and
delighted to receive him, and, without loss of time,
set forth to see Clarence.

The consultation with the physician had taken
place, and it was not concealed from us that Clarence's
health was completely shattered, and his state still

very precarious, needing the utmost care to give him
any chance of recovering the effects of the last two
years, when he had persevered, in spite of warning, in
his eagerness to complete his undertaking, and then
to secure what he had effected. The upshot of the
advice given him was to spend the summer by the
seaside, and if he had by that time gathered strength,
and surmounted the symptoms of disease, to go
abroad, as he was not likely to be able as yet to
bear English cold. Business and cares were to be
avoided, and if he had anything necessary to be done,
it had better be got over at once, so as to be off his
mind. Martyn and Frith gathered that the case
was thought doubtful, and entirely dependent on
constitution and rallying power. Clarence himself
seemed almost passive, caring only for our presence
and the accomplishment of his task.

We had a blessed thanksgiving for mercies
received in the Margaret Street Chapel, as we called
what is now All Saints ; but he and I were unfit for
crowds, and on Sunday morning availed ourselves
of a friend's seat in our old church, which felt so
natural and homelike to us elders that Martyn was
scandalised at our taste. But it was the church of
our Confirmation and first Communion, and Clarence
rejoiced that it was that of his first home-coming
Eucharist. What a contrast w T as he now to the
shrinking boy, scarcely tolerated under his stigmatised

name. Surely the Angel had led him all his life
through !

How happy we two were in the afternoon, while
the others conducted Lawrence to some more noteworthy
church.

Now said Clarence, ' let us go down to Beach-harbour.
It must be done at once. I have been
trying to write, and I can't do it and his face
lighted with a quiet smile which I understood.

So we wrote to the principal hotel to secure rooms,
and set forth on Tuesday, leaving Frith to finish
with Mr. Castleford what could not be settled in the
one business interview that had been held with
Clarence on the Monday.

RESTITUTION.

All ! well for us all some sweet hope lies
Deeply buried from human eyes.'

Whittier.

Things always happen in unexpected ways. During
the little hesitation and difficulty that always attend
my transits at a station, a voice was heard to say,
Oh ! Papa, isn't that Edward Winslow?' Marty n
gave a violent start, and Mr. Fordyce was exclaiming,
' Clarence, my dear fellow, it isn't you ! I beg
your pardon ; you have strength enough left nearly
to wring one's hand off!'

I  I wanted very much to see you, sir,' said
Clarence. ' Could you be so good as to appoint a
time V

See you ! We must always be seeing you of
course. Let me think. I've "ot three weddings
and a funeral tomorrow, and Simpson coming about
the meeting. Come to luncheon  all of you. Mrs.
Fordyce will be delighted, and so will somebody
else.'

There was no doubt about the somebody else, for
Anne's feet were as nearly dancing round Emily as
public propriety allowed, and the radiance of her
face was something to rejoice in. Say what people
will, Englishwomen in a quiet cheerful life are apt
to gain rather than lose in looks up to the borders
of middle age. Our Emily at two-and-thirty was
fair and pleasant to look on ; while as for Anne
Fordyce at twenty-three, words will hardly tell how
lovely were her delicate features, brown eyes, and
carnation cheeks, illuminated by that sunshine
brightness of her father's, which made one feel better
all day for having been beamed upon by either of
them. Clarence certainly did, when the good man
turned back to say, ' Which hotel ? Eh ? That's too
far off. You must come nearer. I would see you
in, but I've got a woman to see before church time,
and I'm short of a curate, so I must be sharp to the
hour.'

'Can I be of any use?' eagerly asked Martyn.
I'll follow you as soon as I have got these fellows
to their quarters.'

We had Amos with us, and were soon able to
release Martyn, after a few compliments on my not
being as usual the invalid ; and by and by he came
back to take Emily to inspect a lodging, recommended
by our friends, close to the beach, and nota
stone's throw from the Eectory built by Mr.

Fordyce. As we two useless beings sat opposite to
each other, looking over the roofs of houses at the
blue expanse and feeling the salt breeze, it was no
fancy that Clarence's cheek looked less wan, and
his eyes clearer, as a smile of content played on his
lips. ' Years sit well on her,' he said gaily ; and I
thought of rewards in store for him.

Then he took this opportunity of consulting me
on the chances for Frith, telling of the original offer,
and the quiet constancy of his friend, and asking
whether I thought Emily would relent. And I
answered that I suspected that she would,  l But
you must get well first,'

I begin to think that more possible,' he answered,
and my heart bounded as he added, ' she would
be satisfied since you would always have a home
with us.'

Oh, how much was implied in that monosyllable.
He knew it, for a little faint colour
came up, as he, shyly, laughed and hesitated, ' That
is if '

If ' included Mrs. Fordyce's not being ungracious.
Nor was she. Emily had found her as kind as
in the old days at Hillside, and perfectly ready
to bring us into close vicinity. It was not caprice
that had made this change, but all possible doubt
and risk of character were over, the old wound
was in some measure healed, and the friendship had

been brought foremost by our recent sorrow and
our present anxiety. Anne was in ecstasies over
Emily. ' It is so odd she said, ' to have grown as
old as you, whom I used to think so very grown
up and she had all her pet plans to display in the
future. Moreover, Martyn had been permitted to
relieve the Eector from the funeral  a privilege
which seemed to gratify him as much as if it had
been the liveliest of services.

We were to lunch at the Eectory, and the move
of our goods was to be effected while we were
there. We found Mrs. Fordyce looking much older,
but far less of an invalid than in old times, and
there was something more genial and less exclusive
in her ways, owing perhaps to the difference of her
life among the many classes with whom she was
called on to associate.

Somersetshire, Beachharbour, and China occupied
our tongues by turns, and we had to begin luncheon
without the Eector, who had been hindered by
numerous calls ; in fact, as Anne warned us, it was
a wonder if he got the length of the esplanade
without being stopped half-a-dozen times.

His welcome was like himself, but he needed
a reminder of Clarence's request for an interview.
Then we repaired to the study, for Clarence begged
that his brothers might be present, and then the
beginning was made. ' Do you remember my show-vol.

II. P

ing you a will that I found in the ruins at Chantry
House V

1 A horrid old scrap that you chose to call one.
Yes ; I told you to burn it

Sir, we have proved that a great injustice was
perpetrated by our ancestor, Philip Winslow, and
that the poor lady who made that will was cruelly
treated, if not murdered. This is no fancy ; I have
known it for years past, but it is only now that
restitution has become possible.'

Restitution ? What are you talking about ? I
never wanted the place nor coveted it.'

No, sir, but the act was our forefather's. You
cannot bid us sit down under the consciousness of
profiting by a crime. I could not do so before,
but I now implore you to let me restore you either
Chantry House and the three farms, or their purchase
money, according to the valuation made at
my father's death. I have it in hand.'

Frank Fordyce walked about the room quite
overcome. ' You foolish fellow !' he said, ' Was it for
this that you have been toiling and throwing away
your health in that pestiferous place ? Edward, did
you know this V

Yes,' I answered. ' Clarence has intended this
ever since he found the will.'

As if that was a will ! You consented.'

We all thought it right.'

He made a gesture of dismay at such folly.

f I do not think you understand how it was,
Mr. Fordyce,' said Clarence, who by this time was
quivering and trembling as in his boyish days.

1 No, nor ever wish to do so. Such matters
ought to be forgotten, and you don't look fit to
say another word.'

Edward will tell you,' said Clarence, leaning back.

I had the whole written out, and was about to
begin, when the person, with whom there was an
appointment, was reported, and we knew that the
rest of the day was mapped out,

Look here,' said Mr. Fordyce, c leave that with
me ; I can't give any answer off-hand, except that Don
Quixote is come alive again, only too like himself.'

Which was true, for Clarence took long to rally
from the effort, and had to be kept quiet for sometime
in the study where we were left. He examined
me on the contents of my paper, and was vexed
to hear that I had mentioned the ghost, which he
said would discredit the whole. Never was the
dear fellow so much inclined to be fretful, and
when Martyn restlessly observed that if we did
not want him, he might as well go back to the
drawing-room, the reply was quite sharp  ' Oh yes,
by all means.'

No wonder there was pain in the tone ; for the
next words, after some interval, were, when two

happy voices came ringing in from the garden
behind, 'You see, Edward.'

Somehow I had never thought of Martyn. He had
simply seemed to me a boy, and I had decided that
Anne would be the crown of Clarence's labours. I
answered 'Nonsense; they are both children together!'

The nonsense was elsewhere,' he said. ' They
always were devoted to each other. I saw how it
was the moment he came into the room.'

Don't give up,' I said ; ' it is only the old habit.
When she knows all, she must prefer '

'Hush!' he said. 'An old scarecrow and that
beautiful young creature !' and he laughed.

You won't be an old scarecrow long.'

'No,' he said in an ominous way, and cut short
the discussion by going back to Mrs. Fordyce.

He was worn out, had a bad night, and did not
get up to breakfast; I was waiting for it in the
sitting-room, when Mr. Fordyce came in after matins
with Emily and Martyn.

I feel just like David when they brought him
the water of Bethlehem,' he said. ' You know I
think this all nonsense, especially this  this ghost
business ; and yet, such  such doings as your
brother's can't go for nothing.'

His face worked, and the tears were in his eyes ;
then, as he partook of our breakfast, he cross-examined
us on my statement, and even tried to persuade us

that the phantom in the ruin was Emily ; and on
her observing that she could not have seen herself,
he talked of the Brocken Spectre and fog mirages ;
but we declared the night was clear, and I told him
that all the rational theories I had ever heard were
far more improbable than the appearance herself,
at which he laughed. Then he scrupulously demanded
whether this  this (he failed to find a
name for it) would be an impoverishment of our
family, and I showed how Clarence had provided
that we should be in as easy circumstances as before.
In the midst came in Clarence himself, having hastened
to dress, on hearing that Mr. Fordyce was in the
house, and looking none the better for the exertion.

c Look here, my dear boy,' said Frank, taking
his hot trembling hand, ' you have put me in a
great fix. You have done the noblest deed at a
terrible cost, and whatever I may think, it ought
not to be thrown away, nor you be hindered from
freeing your soul from this sense of family guilt.
But here, my forefathers had as little right to the
Chantry as yours, and ever since I began to think
about such things, I have been thankful it was none
of mine. Let us join in giving it or its value to
some good work for God  pour it out to the Lord,
as we may say. Bless me ! what have I done now.'

For Clarence, muttering ' thank you,' sank out
of his grasp on a chair, and as nearly as possible

fainted ; but he was soon smiling and saying it was
all relief, and he felt as if a load he had been bearing
had been suddenly removed.

Frank Fordyce durst stay no longer,|but laid his
hand on Clarence's head and blessed him.

THE FORDYCE STORY.

For soon as once the genial plain
Has drunk the life-blood of the slain,
Indelible the spots remain,
And aye for vengeance call.'

Euripides (Justice).

Still all was not over, for by the next day our
brother was as ill, or worse, than ever. The doctor
who came from London allowed that he had expected
something of the kind, but thought we must have
let him exert himself perilously. Poor innocent
Martyn and Anne, they little suspected that their
bright eyes and happy voices had something to do
with the struggle and disappointment, which probably
was one cause of the collapse. As to poor
Frank Fordyce, I never saw him so distressed ; he
felt as if it were all his own fault, or that of his
ancestors, and, whenever he was not required by his
duties, was lingering about for news. I had little
hope, though Clarence seemed to me the very light
of my eyes ; it was to me as though, his task being

accomplished, and the earthly reward denied, he
must be on his way to the higher one.

His complete quiescence confirmed me in the
assurance that he thought so himself. He was too
ill for speech, but Lawrence, who could not stay
away, was struck with the difference from former
times. Not only were there no delusions, but there
was no anxiety or uneasiness, as there had always
been in the former attacks, when he was evidently
eager to live, and still more solicitous to be told if
he were in a hopeless state. Now he had plainly
resigned himself 

Content to live, but not afraid to die ; '

and perhaps, dear fellow, it was chiefly for my
sake that he was willing to live. At least, I
know that when the worst was over, he announced
it by putting those wasted fingers into mine, and
saying

Well, dear old fellow, I believe we shall jog on
together, after all

That attack, though the most severe of all,
brought, either owing to skilful treatment or to his
own calm, the removal of the mischief, and the
beginning of real recovery. Previously he had
given himself no time, but had hurried on to exertions
which retarded his cure, so as very nearly to
be fatal; but he was now perfectly submissive to

whatever physicians or nurses desired, and did not
seem to find his slow convalescence in the least
tedious, since he was amongst us all again.

It was nearly a month before he was disposed
to recur to the subject of his old solicitude again,
and then he asked what Mr. Fordyce had said or
done. Just nothing at all ; but on the next visit
paid to the sick-room, Parson Frank yielded to his
earnest request to send for any documents that
might throw light on the subject, and after a few
days he brought us a packet of letters from his deed-box.
They were written from Hillside Eectory to
the son in the army in Flanders, chiefly by his
mother, and were full of hot, angry invective
against our family, and pity for poor, foolish
Madam,' or ' Cousin Winslow,' as she was generally
termed, for having put herself in their power.

The one most to the purpose was an account of
the examination of Molly Cox, the waiting-woman,
who had been in attendance on the unfortunate
Margaret, and whose story tallied fairly with Aunt
Peggy's tradition. She declared that she was sure
that her mistress had met with foul play. She had
left her as usual at ten o'clock on the fatal 27th of
December 1707, in the inner one of the old chambers
; and in the night had heard the tipsy return
home of the gentlemen, followed by shrieks. In
the morning she (the maid) who usually was the

first to go to her room, was met by Mistress Betty
Winslow, and told that Madam was ill, and insensible.
The old nurse of the Winslowss was called in ; and
Molly was never left alone in the sick-room, scarcely
permitted to approach the bed, and never to touch
her lady. Once, when emptying out a cup at the
garden-door, she saw a mark of blood on the steps,
but Mr. Philip came up and swore at her for a
prying fool. Doctor Tomkms was sent for, but he
barely walked through the room, and ' all know
that he is a mere creature of Philip Winslow,' wrote
the Mrs. Fordyce of that date to her son. And presently
after, ' Justice Eastwood declared there is no
case for a Grand Jury; but he is a known Friend
and sworn Comrade of the Winslowss, and bound to
suppress all evidence against them. Nay, James
Dearlove swears he saw Edward Winslow slip a
golden Guinea into his Clerk's Hand. But as sure
as there is a Heaven above us, Francis, poor Cousin
Winslow was trying to escape to us of her own
Kindred, and met with cruel Usage. Her Blood is
on their Heads.'

There ! ' said Frank Fordyce. ' This Francis
challenged Philip Winslow's eldest son, a mere boy,
three days after he joined the army before Lille,
and shot him like a dog. I turned over the letter
about it in searching for these. I can't boast of
my ancestors more than you can. But may God

accept this work of yours, and take away the guilt
of blood from both of us.'

And have you thought what is best to be done V
asked Clarence, raising himself on his cushions.

Have you ?' asked the Vicar.

1 Oh yes ; I have had my dreams.'

They put their castles together, and they turned
out to be for an orphanage, or rather asylum, not
too much hampered with strict rules, combined with
a convalescent home. The battle of sisterhoods was
not yet fought out, and we were not quite prepared
for them ; but Frank Fordyce had, as he said, ' the
two best women in the world in his eye ' to make
a beginning.

There was full time to think and discuss the
scheme, for our patient was in no condition to move
for many weeks, lying day after day on a couch just
within the window of our sitting-room, which was
as nearly as possible in the sea, so that he constantly
had the freshness of its breezes, the music of its
ripple, and the sight of its waves, and seemed to
find endless pleasure in watching the red sails, the
puffs of steam, and the frolics of the children,
simple or gentle, on the beach.

Something else was sometimes to be watched.
Martyn, all this time, was doing the work of two
curates, and was to be seen walking home with
Anne from church or school, carrying her baskets

and bags, and, as we were given to understand, discussing
by turns ecclesiastical questions, visionary
sisterhoods, and naughty children. At first I wished
it were possible to remove Clarence from the perpetual
spectacle, but we had one last talk over the
matter, and this was quite satisfactory.

It does me no harm,' he said ; ' I like to see it.
Yes, it is quite true that I do. What was personal
and selfish in my fancies seems to have been worn
out in the great lull of my senses under the shadow
of death ; and now I can revert with real joy and
thankfulness to the old delight of looking on our
dear Ellen as our sister, and watch those two children
as we used when they talked of dolls' fenders
instead of the surplice war. I have got you,
Edward ; and you know there is a love " passing
the love of women." '

A lively young couple passed by the window
just then, and with untamed voices observed 

There are those two poor miserable objects !
It is enough to make one melancholy only to look
at them.'

Whereat we simultaneously burst out laughing ;
perhaps because a choking, very far from misery,
was in our throats.

At any rate, Clarence was prepared to be the
cordial, fatherly brother, when Martyn came headlong
in upon us with the tidings that utterly indescribable,

unimaginable joy had befallen him. A
revelation seemed simultaneously to have broken
upon him and Anne while they were copying out
the Sunday School Registers, that what they had
felt for each other all their lives was love  'real,
true love as Anne said to Emily, 'that never could
have cared for anybody else.'

Mrs. Fordyce's sharp eyes had seen what was
coming, and accepted the inevitable, quite as soon
as Clarence had. She came and talked it over with
us, saying she was perfectly satisfied and happy.
Martyn was all that could be wished, and she was
sincerely glad of the connection with her old friends.
So, in fact, was dear old Frank, but he had been
running about with his head full, and his eyes closed,
so that it was quite a shock to him to find that his
little Anne, his boon companion and playfellow, was
actually grown up, and presuming to love and beloved
; and he could hardly believe that she was
really seven years older than her sister had been
when the like had begun with her. But if Anne
must be at those tricks, he said, shaking his head
at her, he had rather it was with Martyn than anybody
else.

There was no difficulty as to money matters.
In truth. Martyn was not so good a match as an
heiress, such as was Anne Fordyce, might have
aspired to, and her Lester kin were sure to be

shocked ; but even if Clarence married, the Earls-combe
living went for something (though, by the
bye, he has never held it), and the Fordyce only
cared that there should be easy circumstances. The
living of Hillside would be resigned in favour of
Martyn in the spring, and meantime he would gain
more experience at Beachharbour, and this would
break the separation to the Fordyce.

After all, however, theirs was not to be our first
wedding. I have said little of Emily. The fact
was, that after that week of Clarence's danger, we
said she lived in a kind of dream. She fulfilled all
that was wanted of her, nursing Clarence, waiting on
me, ordering dinner, making the tea, and so forth ;
but it was quite evident that life began for her on
the Saturdays, when Lawrence came down, and
ended on the Mondays, when he went away. If,
in the meantime, she sat down to work, she went
off into a trance ; if she was sent out for fresh air,
she walked quarter-deck on the esplanade, neither
seeing nor hearing anything, we averred, but some
imaginary Lawrence Frith.

If she had any drawback, good girl, it was the
idea of deserting me ; but then, as I could honestly
tell her, nobody need fear for my happiness, since
Clarence was given back to me. And she believed,
and was ready to go to China with her Lawrence.

THE LAST DISCOVERY.

Grief will be joy if on its edge

Fall soft that holiest ray,
Joy will be grief, if no faint pledge
Be there of heavenly day.'

Keble.

We did not move from Beachharbour till September,
and by that time it had been decided that Chantry
House itself should be given up to the new scheme.
It was too large for us, and Clarence had never
lived there enough to have any strong home feeling
for it ; but he rather connected it with disquiet
and distress, and had a longing to make actual restitution
thereof, instead of only giving an equivalent,
as he did in the case of the farms. Our feelings
about the desecrated chapel were also considerably
changed from the days when we regarded it merely
as a picturesque ruin, and it was to be at once
restored both for the benefit of the orphanage, and
for that of the neighbouring households. For
ourselves, a cottage was to be built, suited to our

idiosyncrasies ; but that could wait till after the
yacht voyage, which we were to make together for
the winter.

Thus it came to pass that the last time we
inhabited Chantry House was when we gave Emily
to Lawrence Frith. We would fain have made it a
double wedding, but the Fordyce wished to wait
for Easter, when Martyn would have been inducted
to Hillside. They came, however, that Mrs. Fordyce
might act lady of the house, and Anne be bridesmaid,
as well as lay the first stone of St. Cecily's
restored chapel.

It was on the day on which they were expected,
when the workmen were digging foundations, and
clearing away rubbish, that the foreman begged Mr.
Winslow to come out to see something they had
found. Clarence came back, very grave and awestruck.
It was an old oak chest, and within lay a
skeleton, together with a few fragments of female
clothing, a wedding ring, and some coins of the later
Stewart, in a rotten leathern purse. This was
ghastly confirmation, though there was nothing else
to connect the bones with poor Margaret. We had
some curiosity as to the coffin in the niche in the
family vault which bore her name, but both Clarence
and Mr. Fordyce shrank from investigations which
could not be carried out without publicity, and
might perhaps have disturbed other remains.

So on the ensuing night there was a strange,
quiet funeral service at Earlscombe Church. Mr.
Henderson officiated, and Chapman acted as clerk.
These, with Amos Bell, alone knew the tradition, or
understood what the discovery meant to the two
Fordyce and three Winslowss who stood at the
opening of the vault, and prayed that whatever guilt
there might be should be put away from the families
so soon to be made one. The coins were placed
with those of Victoria, which the next day Anne
laid beneath the foundation-stone of St. Cecily's.
I need not say that no one has ever again heard the
failings, nor seen the lady with the lamp.

What more is there to tell ? It was of this first
half of our lives that I intended to write, and though
many years have since passed, they have not had
the same character of romance and would not interest
you. Our honeymoon, as Mr. Fordyce called the
expedition we two brothers made in the Mediterranean,
was a perfect success ; and Clarence regained health,
and better spirits than had ever been his; while contriving
to show me all that I was capable of being
carried to see. It was complete enjoyment, and he
came home, not as strong as in old times, but with
fair comfort and capability for the work of life,
so as to be able to take Mr. Castleford's place, when
our dear old friend retired from active direction of
the firm.

VOL. II. Q

You all know how the two old bachelors have
kept house together in London and at Earlscombe
cottage, and you are all proud of the honoured name
Clarence Winslow has made for himself, foremost in
works for the glory of God and the good of men 
as one of those merchant princes of England whose
merchandise has indeed been Holiness unto the Lord.
Thus you must all have felt a shock on finding that
he always looked on that name as blotted, and that
one of the last sayings I heard from him was, '
remember not the sins and offences of my youth,
but according to Thy mercy, think upon me, Lord,
for Thy goodness.'

Then he almost smiled, and said, ' Yes, He has
so looked on me, and I am thankful.'

Thankful, and so am I, for those thirty-four
peaceful years we spent together, or rather for the
seventy years of perfect brotherhood that we have
been granted, and though he has left me behind him,
I am content to wait. It cannot be for long. My
brothers and sisters, their children, and my faithful
Amos Bell, are very good to me ; and in writing upto
that mezzo termine of our lives, I have been living
it over again with my brother of brothers, through
the troubles that have become like joys.

Remarks.
L T uncle Edward has not said half enough about

his dear old self. I want to know if he never was
unhappy when he was young about being like that,
though mother says his face was always nearly as
beautiful as it is now. And it is not only goodness.
It is beautiful with his sweet smile and snowy
white hair. Ellen Winslow.

And I wonder, though perhaps he could not have
told, what Aunt Anne would have done if Uncle
Clarence had not been so forbearing before he went
to China. Clare Frith.

The others are highly impertinent questions, but
we ought to know what became of Lady Peacock.

Ed. G. W.

Reply.

Poor woman, she drifted back to London after
about ten years, with an incurable disease. Clarence
put her into lodgings near us, and did his
best for her as long as she lived. He had a
hard task, but she ended by saying he was her
only friend.

To question Xo. 2 I have nothing to say ; but as
to Xo. 1, with its extravagant compliment, Nature,
or rather God, blessed me with even spirits, a
methodical nature that prefers monotony, and very

little morbid shyness ; nor have I ever been devoid
of tender care and love. So that I can only remember
three severe fits of depression. One, when
I had just begun to be taken out in the Square
Gardens, and Selina Clarkson was heard to say I
was a hideous little monster. It was a revelation,
and must have given frightful pain, for I remember
it acutely after sixty-five years.

The second fit was just after Clarence was gone
to sea, and some very painful experiments had been
tried in vain for making me like other people. For
the first time I faced the fact that I was set aside
from all possible careers, and should be, as I remember
saying, 'no better than a girl.' I must have
been a great trial to all my friends. My father
tried to reason on resignation, and tell me happiness
could be in myself, till he broke clown. My mother
attempted bracing by reproof. Miss Newton endeavoured
to make me see that this was my cross.
Every word was true, and came round again, but
they only made me for the time more rebellious and
wretched. That attack was ended, of all things in
the world, by heraldry. My attention somehow
was drawn that way, and the study filled up time
and thought till my misfortunes passed into custom,
and haunted me no more.

My last was a more serious access, after coming
into the country, when improved health and vigour

inspired cravings that made me fully sensible of my
blighted existence. I had gone the length of my
tether and overdone myself; I missed London life
and Clarence ; and the more I blamed myself, and
tried to rouse myself, the more despondent and discontented
I grew.

This time my physician was Mr. Stafford ; I had
deciphered a bit of old French and Latin for him,
and he was very much pleased. ' Why, Edward,'
he said, ' you are a very clever fellow ; you can
be a distinguished  or what is better  a useful
man.'

Somehow that saying restored the spring of hope,
and gave an impulse ! I have not been a distinguished
man, but I think in my degree I have been
a fairly useful one, and I am sure I have been a
happy one. E. W.

Useful ! that you have, dear old fellow. Even
if you had done nothing else, and never been an
unconscious backbone to Clarence ; your influence on
me and mine has been unspeakably blest. But
pray, Mistress Anne, how about that question of
naughty little Clare's?' M. W.

'Don't you think you had better let alone that
question, reverend sir ? Youngest pets are apt to

be saucy, especially in these clays, but I didn't
expect it of you ! It might have been the worse
for you if W. C. W. had not held his tongue in
those days. Just like himself, but I am heartily
glad that so he did. A. W.'

